It’s great to be at Trump Tower. It’s great to be in a wonderful city – New York. And it’s an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody’s expectations. There’s been no crowd like this.
And I can tell you some of the candidates, they went in, they didn’t know the air condition didn’t work. They sweated like dogs. They didn’t know the room was too big because they didn’t have anybody there.
How are they going to beat ISIS? I don’t think it’s going to happen.
Our country is in serious trouble. We don’t have victories anymore.
We used to have victories but we don’t have them.
When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let’s say, China in a trade deal? They kill us.
I beat China all the time. All the time.
When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions. And what do we do?
When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn’t exist folks.
They beat us all the time.
When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us at our stupidity, and now they’re beating us economically. They are not our friend. Believe me. But they’re killing us economically.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.
It’s true. And these are the best and the finest.
When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you.
They’re sending people that have lots of problems and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists.
And some I assume are good people.
But I speak to border guards, and they tell us what we’re getting.
And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people.
It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America and it’s coming probably – probably – from the Middle East.
But we don’t know because we have no protection and we have no competence. We don’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop. And it’s got to stop fast.
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East.
They’ve become rich. I’m in competition with them.
They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel.
When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest.
They don’t have to pay interest because they took the oil that when we left Iraq that I said we should have taken.
So now ISIS has the oil. And what they don’t have Iran has.
…And I will tell you this and I said this very strongly years ago – I said and I love the military and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever had and we need it more now than ever – but I said, “Don’t hit Iraq because you’re going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East. Iran and somebody else will get the oil.”
And it turned out Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq and they’re taking it over big league.
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq. $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives – thousands – in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers who I love – I love. They’re great. All over the place. Thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.
And we have nothing. We can’t even go there. We have nothing.
And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
Last week I read 2,300 Humvees – these are big vehicles – were left behind for the enemy. 2,000! You would say maybe 2, maybe 4? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles. They ran and the enemy took them.
…Last quarter it was just announced our gross domestic product – a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero.
Who have ever heard of this? It’s never below zero.
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978.
But think of it. GDP below zero. Horrible labor participation rate.
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18% to 20%.
Don’t believe the 5.6%. Don’t believe it.
That’s right. A lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs because there are no jobs. Because China has our jobs. And Mexico has our jobs. They all have our jobs.
But the real number – the real number – is anywhere from 18% to 19% and maybe even 21% and nobody talks about it because it’s a statistic full of nonsense.
Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the day and we as a country are getting weaker.
Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.
It came out recently – they have equipment that’s 30 years old. They don’t even know if they work.
And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television because boy does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say “That is a group of people and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing.”
We have a disaster called the big lie – Obamacare. Obamacare.
Yesterday it came out that costs are going for people up 29%, 39%, 49% and even 55%.
And deductibles are through the roof. You’d have to get hit by a tractor – literally a tractor – to use it because the deductibles are so high it’s virtually useless.
It is a disaster.
And remember the $5 billion website? $5 billion we spent on a website and to this day it doesn’t work. A $5 billion website.
I have so many websites. I have them all over the place. I hire people. They do a website. It costs me $3.
$5 billion website.
Well, you need somebody because politicians are all talk no action. Nothing’s going to get done. They will not bring us – believe me – to the promise land.
They will not.
As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches. And I hear my fellow Republicans and they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them.
They don’t know how to bring it about. They’d come up to my office. I’m meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don’t know, “Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?”
I like them and I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs and they don’t talk China.
When was the last time you heard, “China’s killing us. They’re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe it. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete. Impossible. They’re killing us.”
But you don’t hear that from anybody else. You don’t hear it from anybody else.
And I watch their speeches…of these people and they say, “The sun will rise. The moon will set. All sorts of wonderful things will happen.”
And people are saying, “What’s going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don’t need the rhetoric. I want a job.”
And that’s what’s happening.
And it’s going to get worse because remember Obamacare really kicks in in ’16. 2016.
Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might even be in one of my courses.
I would invite him. I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world so I’d say, “You know what, if he wants, I have one right next to the White House. Right on the Potomac. If he’d like to play, that’s fine.”
In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play. That would be a very good thing.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive.
Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who’s a doctor and he said to me the other day, “Donald, I’d never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. Patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good; they have no plan now.”
We have to repeal Obamacare and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody but much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.
So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life.
If you can’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with you. You’re certainly not very good.
And that’s what we have representing us.
They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance.
They’re controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests. Fully. They control them.
Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They’re great.
But you know what? It won’t happen. It won’t happen because we have to stop doing things for some people but for this country it’s destroying our country. We have to stop and it has to stop now.
Now, our country needs a truly great leader and we need a truly great leader now.
We need a leader that wrote The Art of the Deal.
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets.
Our vets have been abandoned.
And we also need a cheerleader.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, “Well, the one thing I think he’ll do well, I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he’d be a great spirit. He was vibrant. He was young.”
I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
He’s not a leader. That’s true. You’re right about that.
But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a negative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader. He was the opposite.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It’s not great again.
We need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.
And I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family.
They’re saying, “Dad, you’re going to do something that’s going to be so tough.”
You know, all of my life I’ve heard that a truly successful person – a really, really, really successful person – and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can’t happen.
And yet, that’s the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
So ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for President of the United States and we are going to make our country great again!
It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.
We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to work.
But they’re going to have incentive to work because the greatest social program is a job.
And they’ll be proud and they’ll love it and they’ll make much more money than they would’ve ever made. And they’ll be doing so well and we’re going to be thriving as a country – thriving.
It can happen.
I will be the greatest jobs President that God ever created. I’ll tell you that.
I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places.
I’ll bring back our jobs and I’ll bring back our money.
Right now, think of this. We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that.
So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money and then they loan us back the money and  we pay them an interest. And then the dollar goes up so their deal’s even better.
How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?
…I’m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.
Number one, the people negotiating it don’t have a clue. Our President doesn’t have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator.
He’s the one who did [Bowe] Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl. They get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there. We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us.
That’s the negotiator we have.
Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster and we have to protect Israel.
So we need people – I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you.
If you don’t have talented people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that know business not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs just about are gotten, free trade is terrible.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people.
But we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren’t smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests and it’s just not going to work.
So here’s a couple of stories happened recently.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And you know China comes over and they dump all their stuff and I buy it. I buy it because frankly I have an obligation to buy it. Because they devalued their currency so brilliantly. They just did it recently and nobody thought they could do it again.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything – everything – they got away with it again.
And it’s impossible for our people here to compete.
So I want to tell you this story.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. Calls me up a few weeks ago. He’s very upset.
I said, “What’s your problem?”
He said, “You know, I make great product.” And I said, “I know. I know that because I buy the product.” He said, “I can’t get it into China. They won’t accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental. They talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it.”
I said, “Wait a minute. That’s terrible. Does anyone know this?”
He said, “Yeah, they do it all the time with other people.”
I said, “They send it back?”
He said, “Yeah. I finally go it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They’re not supposed to be doing that.”
I told him, “No, they do charge a tariff on trucks when we send trucks and other things over there. Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agree to buy planes from Boeing.”
Hey, I’m not saying they’re stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for – I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them?
I own a big chunk of the Bank of America building in 1290 Avenue of the Americas that I got from China is a war. Very valuable. I love China.
Biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarter is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China.
People say, “Oh, you don’t like China.” No, I love them.
But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders and we can’t sustain ourselves with that.
There’s too much.
It’s like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That’s the difference between China’s leaders and our leaders. They are ripping us.
We are rebuilding China. We are rebuilding many countries.
China you go there now – roads, bridges, schools. You never saw anything like it.
They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes, and they’re all over the place.
We have all the cards but we don’t know how to use them. We don’t even know that we have the cards because our leaders don’t understand the game.
We can turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.
Now they’re going militarily. They’re building a military island in the middle of the South China Sea. A military island!
Now, our country could never do that because we’d have to get environmental clearance and the environmentalists wouldn’t let our country – we would never build in an ocean.
They built it in about one year this massive military port.
They’re building up their military to a point that is very scary.
You have a problem with ISIS, you have a bigger problem with China.
And in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade is Mexico.
So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, “That’s a terrible story. I hate to hear it.”
But I have another one – Ford.
So Mexico takes a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out, everybody thought the deal was dead.
Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It’s going in. That’s going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.
All of a sudden at the last moment, this big car manufacturer – foreign – announces they’re not going to Tennessee; they’re going to spend their billion dollars in Mexico instead. Not good.
Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico.
$2.5 billion. It’s going to be one of the largest in the world.
Ford – good company.
So I announced that I’m running for President.
…One of the early things I would do probably even before I got in – and I wouldn’t even use – you know I have – I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.
You’ve got a lot of them that are overrated. They’re not good. They think they are. They get good stories because the newspapers get buffaloed. But they’re not good.
But I know the best negotiators in the world and I’d put them one for each country. Believe me, folks, we will do very, very well. Very, very well.
But I wouldn’t even waste my time with this one.
I would call up the head of Ford, who I know, if I was President, and say “Congratulations. I understand that you’re building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you’re going to take your cars and sell them to the United States at zero tax, just flow them across the border.”
And you say to yourself, “How does that help us? Right? How does that help us? Where is that good?”
It’s not.
So I’d say, “Congratulations. That’s the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we’re going to charge you a 35% tax. Okay? And that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction and that’s it.”
Now, here’s what’s going to happen.
If it’s not me in this position, it’s one of these politicians that we’re running against…and here’s what’s going to happen, they’re not so stupid. They know it’s not a good thing. And they may even be upset by it.
But then they’re going to get a call from their donors or probably from the lobbyists for Ford and say, “You can’t do that to Ford because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can’t do that to Ford.”
And guess what? No problem. They’re going to build it in Mexico. They’re going to take away thousands of jobs. It’s very bad for us.
So under President Trump, here’s what would happen.
The head of Ford would call me back I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he’d want to be cool and he’ll wait ’till the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.
And he’ll say, “Please, please, please.” He’ll beg for a little while. And I’ll say, “No interest.”
Then he’ll call all sorts of political people, and I’ll say, “Sorry fellas. No interest.” Because I don’t need anybody’s money. It’s nice. I don’t need anybody’s money.
I’m using my own money. I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors. I don’t care.
I’m really rich. I’ll show you that in a second.
And by the way, I’m not even saying that in a brag – that’s the kind of mindset, that’s the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So because we’ve got to make the country rich.
It sounds crass. Somebody said, “Oh, it sounds crass.”
It’s not crass. We’ve got $18 trillion in debt. We’ve got nothing but problems.
We’ve got a military that needs equipments all over the place. We’ve got nuclear weapons that are obsolete. We’ve got nothing.
We’ve got Social Security that’s going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn’t bring money into the country. All these people want to cut the hell out of it. I’m not going to cut it at all. I’m going to bring money in and we’re going to save it.
But here’s what’s going to happen.
After I’m called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I’m called by all of the special interests and by the donors and by the lobbyists and they have zero chance of convincing me – zero, I’ll get a call from the head of Ford.
He’ll say, “Please reconsider.” I’ll say, “No.”
He’ll say, “Mr. President, we’ve decided to move the plant back into the United States. We’re not going to build it in Mexico.”
That’s it. They have no choice. They have no choice.
There are hundreds of things like that.
I’ll give you another example.
Saudi Arabia. They make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day.
I love the Saudis. Many of them are in this building.
They make $1 billion a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships, we say, “We’re going to protect.” What are we doing? They’ve got nothing but money. If the right person asked them, they’d pay a fortune. They wouldn’t be there except for us.
And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, “Yemen was a great victory.”
Two weeks later, the place was blown up and they kept our equipment. They always keep our equipment. We don’t send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment.
We ought to send some real junk because frankly it would be – we ought to send our surplus. We’re always losing this gorgeous brand new stuff.
But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen?
Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They’re gone.
And I’m the one who made all the right predictions about Iraq.
You know, all of these politicians that I’m running against now – it’s so nice to say I’m running as opposed to saying if I run, if I run. I’m running.
But all of these politicians I’m running against now they’re trying to disassociate –
I mean you look at Bush. It took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn’t answer the question. He didn’t know. I said, “Is he intelligent?
Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question. Is Iraq a good thing or a bad thing? He didn’t know. He couldn’t answer the question.
How are these people going to lead us? How are we going to go back and make it great again? We can’t. They don’t have a clue. They can’t lead us. They can’t even answer simple questions.
It was terrible.
But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble.
Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place.
And I used to say it. There are ships at sea – and this was during the worst crisis – that were loaded up with oil and the cartel kept the price up because again they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.
There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again and therefore make it great again because we need money. We’re dying. We’re dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.
So, Ford will come back. They’ll all come back.
And I will say this. This is going to be an election in my opinion that’s based on competence.
Somebody said…to me the other day – a reporter, a very nice reporter, “But Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person.”
…But actually I am. I think I am a nice person. People that know me like me. Does my family like me? I think so. Right?
…So the reporter said to me the other day, “But Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?”
I said, “I don’t know.” I said, “I think that number one. I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I’m actually a very nice person.”
But I said, “This is going to be an election that’s based on competence because people are tired of these nice people and they’re tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world.”
And they’re tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita than any nation in the world and we’re 26th in the world. 25 countries are better than us at education and some of them are like third world countries.
But we’re becoming a third world country because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads – everything.
So one of the things I did, I said, “You know what I’ll do? I’ll do it.” Because a lot of people said, “He’ll never run. Number one, he won’t want to give up his lifestyle.” They’re right about that but I’m doing it.
Number two, I’m a private company. So nobody knows what I’m worth.
And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.
So I said, “That’s okay. I’m proud of my net worth. I’ve done an amazing job.”
I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens. And my father said – I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.
But he used to say, “Donald, don’t go into Manhattan. That’s the big leagues. We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it.”
I said, “Dad, I’ve got to go to Manhattan. I got to build those big buildings. I’ve got to do it, dad. I’ve got to do it.”
And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals. The Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the West Side. I did a lot of great deals and I did them early and young.
And now I’m building all over the world and I love what I’m doing.
But they all said – a lot of the pundits on television – “Well, Donald will never run and one of the main reasons is he’s private and he’s probably not as successful as everybody thinks.”
So I said to myself, “You know, nobody’s ever going to know unless I run.” Because I’m really proud of my success. I really am.
I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical, that means education, that means everything.
So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months because it’s big and complex and they’ve put together a statement – a financial statement.
This is a summary but everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don’t need extensions or anything. We’ll be filing it right on time. We don’t need anything.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday because they said, “He had assets of $9 billion.”
I said, “No, that’s the wrong number.”
That’s the wrong number. Not assets.
So they put together this and before I say it I have to say this: I made it the old fashioned way. It’s real estate. You know, it’s real estate. It’s labor and it’s unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren’t in unions and it’s all over the place and building all over the world.
And I have assets – big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected – $9.24 billion.
And I have liabilities of about $500 million. That’s long-term debt, very low interest rates.
In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, “Donald, you don’t have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion?” I said, “I don’t need it. I don’t want it.” And I’ve been there. I don’t want it. But in two seconds, they’d give me whatever I wanted.
So I have a total net worth and now with the increase it will be well over $10 billion. But here a total net worth of $8 billion – net worth, not assets, not liabilities. A net worth after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets – Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street – sometimes referred to as the Trump Building…many other places all over the world – so the total is $8.737 billion.
Now, I’m not doing that to brag because you know what? I don’t have to brag. I don’t have to. Believe it or not.
I’m doing that to say that that’s the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.
We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don’t have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.
So I put together this statement and the only reason I’m telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going.
Because if we have another three or four years – you know, we’re at $18 trillion now. We’re soon going to be at $20 trillion.
According to the economists who I’m not big believers in but nevertheless this is what they’re saying that $24 trillion – we’re very close – that’s the point of no return.
$24 trillion. We will be there soon. That’s when we become Greece. That’s when we become a country that’s unsalvageable. And we’re going to be there very soon. We’re going to be there very soon.
So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly.
I would repeal and replace the big lie – Obamacare.
I would build a great wall. And nobody builds walls better than me, believe me. And I’ll build them very inexpensively. I will build a great, great wall on our southern border and I will have Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words
Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody.
I will find within our military I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur. I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that’s going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody – nobody – will be pushing us around.
I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.
And we won’t be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who’s making a horrible and laughable deal, who’s just being tapped along as they make weapons right now and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old and falls and breaks his leg. I won’t be doing that, and I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you.
I will immediately terminate President Obama’s illegal executive order on immigration. Immediately.
Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.
Now it’s very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity in a very, very hardcore prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers – two vicious people – escaped and nobody knows where they are.
And a woman was on television this morning and…she said, “You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn’t want guns. And now, since this happened, it’s up in the prison area, my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun in every table. We’re ready to start shooting.”
I said very interesting. So protect the Second Amendment.
End Common Core. It is a disaster.
Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination. He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can’t do it.
We have end – education has to be local.
Rebuild the country’s infrastructure. Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.
I look at these roads being built all over the country and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable. How bad.
You know, we’re building on Pennsylvania Avenue – the Old Post Office. We’re converting it to one of the world’s great hotels. It’s going to be the best hotel in Washington D.C.
We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it.
It was the most highly sought after or one of them but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services.
We got it. People were shocked Trump got it.
Well, we got it for two reasons. Number one, we’re really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I’ll add in a third, we had a great financial statement because the General Services who are terrific people by the way and talented people they wanted to do a great job and they want to make sure it got built.
So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports.
You come into La Guardia Airport, it’s like we’re in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt…You look at these airports. We are like a third world country.
And I come in from China, and I come in from Qatar, and I come in from different places and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come back to this country and you have LAX disaster – you have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Save Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it. Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse but save it.
People have been paying in for years and now many of these candidates want to cut it.
You save it by making the United States by making us rich again by taking back all of the money that’s being lost.
Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt because believe me we’re in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that frankly has been good to me but I still hate to see what’s happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated. Be careful of a bubble because what you’ve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.
And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.
Sadly, the American dream is dead. But if I get elected President I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before and we will make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Two things. I am so proud of the fact that I got dialogue started on illegal immigration.
And people in the media – in all fairness – they were very rough on me that first week, and then many of them have now apologized to me and almost everybody’s apologized.
Because it turned out I was right.
Beautiful Kate [Steinle] in San Francisco was shot by an illegal who was here five times and they couldn’t do anything about it. And believe me, Mexico kept pushing him back because they didn’t want him. Believe me, that’s true.
Now, everybody is saying that Trump was right.
But I tell you, I took a lot of abuse. I had disloyal people like Macy’s and like others – “Oh, Donald, you’re a little controversial. We’re going to have to drop you.”
I said, I don’t care – the ties – what do they mean to me? He’s wearing one of my ties, by the way, it’s very nice. [Laughter]
I never liked them that much because they were made in China so it never mattered that much.
We move it to the Convention Center. We have 15,000 people. The biggest one ever. Bigger than Bernie Sanders. 15,000 people showed up to hear me speak. Bigger than anybody and everybody knows it.
A beautiful day with incredible people that were wonderful, great Americans. I will tell you.
John McCain goes, “Oh boy, Trump makes my life difficult. He had 15,000 crazies show up.” Crazies – he called them all crazy.
I said, “They weren’t crazy. They were great Americans.”
These people – if you were to see these people, you – I know what a crazy is. I know all about crazies. These weren’t crazies.
So he insulted me and he insulted everybody in that room. And I said, “Somebody should run against John McCain who has been, in my opinion, not so hot.” And I supported him. I supported him for President. I raised $1 million for him. It’s a lot of money. I supported him. He lost. He let us down. But you know he lost. So I never liked him as much after that because I don’t like loser.
And I believe perhaps he’s a war hero but right now he said some very bad things about a lot of people.
So what I said is John McCain, I disagree with him that these people aren’t crazy and very importantly – and I speak the truth – he graduated last in his class at Annapolis. So I said, nobody knows that – I said he graduated last or second to last – he graduated last in his class at Annapolis.
And he was upset. I said, “Why? For telling the truth?”
See, you’re not supposed to say that somebody graduated last or second to last in their class because you’re supposed to be like friends as very nice.
Folks, I want to make America great again. We want to get down to brass tacks. We don’t want to listen to his stuff with being politically correct. We have a lot of work to do.
Frank, the other day Hillary Clinton got up and she said, “I didn’t like Mr. Trump’s tone.” We have people – Christians – having their heads cut off in the Middle East. We have people dying all over the border where I was right – 100% right. We have all of this like Medieval Times. And she said, “I didn’t like his tone.”
And you know who else said that? Jeb Bush. “I didn’t like his tone.”
What does it have to do with tone? We want results. This group wants results. We don’t want tone.
Everybody’s heard of Norman Vincent Peale? He was so great. He would give a sermon; you’d never wanted to leave. Sometimes we had sermons and every once in a while we think about leaving a little early, right, even though we’re Christian.
Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, Frank, would give a sermon – I’m telling you, I still remember his sermons. It was unbelievable. And what he would do is he would bring real life situations – modern day situations – into the sermon. And you could listen to him all day long.
When you left the church, you were disappointed that it was over. He was the greatest guy…
When we go to church and when I drink my little wine, which is about the only wine I drink, and have my little cracker, I guess that’s a form of asking for forgiveness. And I do as often as possible because I feel cleansed. But to me that’s important I do that.
But in terms of officially, I could say absolutely…I don’t think in terms of that. I think in terms of let’s go on and let’s make it right.
Look, I want this country – this country has great potential. But soon it’s not going to have that potential because we’re being drained by incompetent leaders, by horrible people.
As an example, with the Iran deal, which is a total disaster, we didn’t get our four hostages back. That’s just one aspect of it.
And just this morning and yesterday Secretary [John] Kerry, who’s the worst – the worst negotiator. I mean, he didn’t read the Art of the Deal, folks. So Secretary Kerry, he said very strongly “We didn’t want to bring up the hostages. We didn’t want to complicate our deal.”
…We want our hostages back. How is that complicating a deal? Right?
We gave them money. We didn’t – so he didn’t want to talk about the money. He didn’t want to talk about the hostage.
It was just announced that Iran got one of their leading nuclear scientists back as part of the deal. Just came out this morning.
So Iran, in addition to making an unbelievable deal that’s going to make them one of the great powers, perhaps more powerful than the United States because today it’s about the weapons not about the number of soldiers you have.
…We’re giving them billions and billions of dollars that we shouldn’t be giving them. We didn’t get our hostages back, which is terrible because they didn’t want to complicate – we didn’t want to complicate the negotiations.
And when Obama was asked about that question the other day by Major – he was asked a very simple question – the anger in his face of being asked that question and he said “We didn’t want to complicate.”
How is it complicated? Except for one problem. Iran just got their big scientist back and we just found out about it this morning.
I think we are run by a group of incompetent people and they’re destroying our country.
And just one other thing, nobody deals with politicians more than I did. I’ve contributed to everybody. They did whatever I said. Everybody.
I contributed to Hillary Clinton. I contributed to Bill. I contributed to everybody.
And you know what? I was a businessman. Why wouldn’t I? I don’t have to agree with them.
I know this like with my wedding. I said, “Hillary, Bill, be at my wedding.” They were at my wedding. That was very nice. Okay? Because I contribute.
…But as a businessman you have other things and you have other things to do. So I’m very proud of a record. No politician in my opinion – I know them all, I watch them. They talk about the moon and the sun. The sun will rise and the moon will set. I watch them. People want jobs. No politician is going to get this country back.
I’m sort of a politician because I’ve been dealing with politicians all my life.
If you can’t win and make a lot of money with politicians, you’re not very good. Believe me. I’ve been dealing with them all my life and I don’t think anybody’s dealt with them any better. I know them.
And I know it from the other side. All of the people, like when you see Bush has $100 million and you see Hillary has $50 million that they got, they just announced, those people are controlled by those people that gave them money. They’re lobbyists. They’re special interests. And they’re donors.
And I will tell you that they are totally controlled.
And when Bush has to make a decision – and can you imagine this guy negotiating against China? We have no chance, okay? Who would you rather have negotiating against China? Trump or Bush? You tell me.
And more than any other question, I get from people is “How did you raise your kids?” Because you know you read so many horror stories about children.
And one of them was through the church – very important. We have a church where I grew up – First Presbyterian Church in Queens – in Jamaica, Queens – and that’s where I grew up and that’s where I did went to church. I go to Sunday. I go to Bible class. I did all the things that a lot of the folks in this room did.
Church was a very important element as far as growing the kids.
And the other important element was I would from the time they’re two-years-old say, “No drugs, no alcohol, no cigarettes.”
And Ivanka, I remember, her looking at me once, “Daddy, you’re driving me crazy.” The kid was like four-years-old. She didn’t even know what drugs are.
But I would constantly – because I’ve seen so many children grow up and they get under the influence of drugs or alcohol, and their parents are brilliant people, they’re successful people. The kid is brilliant. They have no chance. They have no chance.
Once they’re under the influence of the drugs and the alcohol, life is too tough, they’re not going to make it.
So I was very strong with my children, “No drugs, no alcohol”, and I threw in cigarettes.
But I was always available to my children. And frankly, I’ve said it – I was actually a great father. I was a better father than I was a husband.
And the reason is I was a worker. And you mentioned the relationships and they were very good women. But I was always working. I was working. I was creating jobs. I was building jobs. I was doing everything. Legitimate stuff. I was working and it was very hard for a woman. And I blame myself; I don’t blame anybody else. But it was a work thing. It wasn’t a bad thing.
And it was very hard for anybody to compete against the work and that was not good. I’ve learned that.
By the way, same with Mexico. Love Mexico. Love the Mexican people. Thousands of them work for me. They’re incredible. I just don’t like that the Mexican leaders are ripping off our country because they’re smarter and more cunning than our leaders and our negotiators. You know, between the trade and the border, they’re killing us.
I know the richest people in the world. I know the toughest people in the world. I know these people; they’re brutal and you wouldn’t like them and they probably wouldn’t like you very much. These are brutal people. Great negotiators. Great business people. But not nice people. They’re not the happiest people. They’re very rich. They’re very smart. I would use them to negotiate against Japan…But I will tell you they’re not the happiest people.
The happiest people I see are the people that have great families. Whatever it is, I mean, I don’t know.
And just to take that a step further – and I tell this people all the time – they say, “How do I get rich, Mr. Trump? How do I get rich?” And they have a good family. I tell them all the time and I make this statement because I’ve seen it – those people that have that great family – wife, husband, children, whatever it takes – those are the people that in my life I’ve seen are the happiest people.
A lot of the really successful people are – they always want more, more. They could have $2 billion; they want $6 billion. Then they want to get up to the $10 billion. But they always want more, more. And in the end, they’re not very happy people.
So I don’t know it’s a great thing.
Religion is a very big factor too. I’ve seen people that are – have a great family and they have God and they have church and they love their church. I have friends who love to go to their church and help their church. They’re happy people.
And essentially, Frank, look, when you boil it down, we need a President that’s going to be able to make deals – great deals – because we’re getting killed. We’re losing – our gross national product went down. Our GDP if you look at it – gross domestic – went down in the first quarter. It became negative.
When China goes up 7% or 8%, I saw the other day, China went up 7%. It was like in China they’re going crazy. How can it only go up – we had a negative. Think of it. We had a negative number. It’s unheard of.
GDP goes down fairly substantially. And I think it’s going to continue to go down.
That means we’re getting smaller and yet we have more people many of which pour across our border by the way.
We need somebody that can take our jobs back from China. We need somebody that can take our jobs back from Mexico. We need somebody that can take our jobs back because we’re going to hell. Our country’s going to hell…We’re going to hell and we need somebody that’s going to be able to bring our jobs back.
Look, if I’m elected President, I know everybody. They can’t create jobs like me. Nobody’s going to be close. They can’t negotiate with China like I can negotiate.
And by the way, every single other country in the world, we don’t make good deals anymore.
If I can make the country strong financially, it’s a lot easier for the country morally. I mean our country – you look at what’s going on. We’re in serious trouble.
Our military is – we’ve sent weapons over to our so-called allies and one shot’s fired and we lose 2,300 humvees, armored plated. I mean, we don’t know what we’re doing. We truly don’t know what we’re doing.
If I can make our country really strong, I would focus on the military.
I tell you what I’d focus on the vets. I love the vets. The vets are treated like fourth class citizens in this country.
And that’s part of the morality. These guys went out. These people went out and they fought for us and they’re great people. The best people. And they’re treated so badly.
I’ve been with vets where they say they go to a doctor’s office in one of the places and they’ll wait four to five days in a reception area before they can even see a doctor. That’s morality too and that’s very bad morality.
I think your question is very good but I think they have to go hand in hand because our country’s a debtor nation. We’re in serious trouble. And we’ve got to make us – I know it sounds a little bit rough – we’ve got to make our country rich again. We have to make our country great again.
We can’t let other parts of the world steal our country, steal our jobs, steal our manufacturing.
With that being said, the morality of this country with the right President.
President Obama, I’d never thought he would be a good President because I didn’t think he was qualified. But I thought one thing that he would do, he would be a great cheerleader for the country. He’s been horrible… I don’t know if he loves America. I hope he loves America…
But you know what? I was hoping and I thought – the one thing I thought about him – I saw him speaking in Germany. I saw him speaking. I thought he’d be a good cheerleader for the country. He’s been horrible. He’s been divisive. He’s been horrible.
He hasn’t even called Kate Steinle’s family who got killed. He calls other people. But he hasn’t called the family of Kate Steinle. Why wouldn’t he call her? And this was a man that came over, was pushed over from Mexico. Five different – he shouldn’t have been here. An illegal immigrant. And nobody’s even called her family. Okay?
I think morality and I think success go hand in hand. You don’t have to have one without the other.

…We have to make our country great again.
And I made a statement and I read a speech. Actually I didn’t read – I don’t use teleprompters. I don’t like it. They’re too easy. Other people use teleprompters. Maybe when you run for President, you shouldn’t be allowed to use a teleprompter because you’d find out what you’re getting. Does that make sense?
And very interestingly, made a speech, got great reviews – fantastic reviews. And everybody thought it was a wonderful speech, wonderful opening.
Then about a week later, they said, “Oh”. They took a statement and they dissected it and they cut out a few words and they said this. And all of a sudden.
And it was very interesting. And what that sort of transformed into was the word “illegal immigrants”. And we brought something up that wasn’t even discussed by anybody – Democrat, Republican. Wasn’t discussed.
The problem that we’re having in this country. It’s a tremendous problem with the border and border security and lack of border security and illegal immigrants. It’s a huge problem.
And now everybody’s talking about it and they’re saying I was right.
And people that were criticizing me two weeks ago are calling me and they’re saying “Off the record, Mr. Trump, you were right.”
And even reporters – a couple of them called – and they – I said, “Would you go on the record?” “No, no, no, we don’t want to do that.”
But we’re getting great credit.
And then last week as you know, we had a tremendous rally – 15,000 people in Phoenix, Arizona – and it was unbelievable.
And they came for a reason and it was illegal immigration. They’re being decimated. They want it stopped.
I want people to come into the country. But they have to do it through the legal process.
And we can open up the legal process and make it go faster and all of those things. But it has to be a legal process. You can’t have people just pouring into the country.
So I was out there and I was taking tremendous abuse. Unbelievable abuse, actually.
And people said, “Would you apologize? Would you apologize?”
And then there were tremendous crimes that were being noted after my speech.
And then you had magnificent Kate [Steinle] from San Francisco killed by an illegal immigrant who was forced across the border, back to us – in my opinion, forced by the Mexican government – back to us and that was taken place and five times back into our country. And the fifth time was not good because Kate should be with us and she’s not with us. She was an amazing person from everybody’s standpoint and she’s not with us.
And then other things happened. So many other things. And now people are looking and they’re seeing what’s going on.
So that’s become a very, very big topic – illegal immigration. And I can say in terms of setting the standard and setting the force, it would not even be discussed right now folks and it’s going to be something I think that’s going to be one of the hot buttons.
Now, I watch as politicians are trying to claim that, and that’s okay with me. You know they’re all talk, no action so they won’t do anything anyway. Just so you understand. They can talk all they want.
I mean, I got a little dose of it. I was coming up and I see your Senator. What a stiff. What a stiff. Lindsey Graham.
By the way, he’s registered zero in the polls. Zero! He’s on television all the time.
So this morning, you know, they told me, “Mr. Trump”, because Bush said my tone’s not nice. I said, “Tone, we need tone. We need enthusiasm. We need tone.” It’s true.
And actually Hillary Clinton said, “I don’t like his tone.”
We have people having their heads cut off – Christians in the Middle East. We have people that are being dunked in cages and drowned in the Middle East.
We have border security that doesn’t exist and it’s not because of our incredible border folks. I mean, they can do the job.
And we can build a wall. And by the way, Mexico can pay for the wall. Just so you understand. You know, all of these guys say, “Oh, they’ll never pay.” Of course they’ll pay. If you have the right guy negotiating that, they’ll pay. They’re making a fortune.
And I have a lot of respect for Mexico by the way. A lot of people say “Oh, he doesn’t like” – I love Mexico.
And I love the Mexican people. I’ve had thousands of Mexicans working for me. I sell apartments for millions of dollars to people from Mexico. They love me. They love me.

…And by the way, Nevada just came out with a poll, and I said I will win the Hispanic vote. I’m the only one that’s going to win the Hispanic vote because I’m going to take jobs from China, Japan, and Mexico and lots of other places, we’re going to bring them back here and they’re going to work. They’re going to be legal in the country. They’re going to work. Everybody’s going to be happy and make money.
So I love the Mexican people. I love the Mexican people and I love Mexico. I really like Mexico. It’s a great place.
The problem we have is that their leaders are much smarter, sharper, and more cunning than our leaders. Are you shocked to hear that, by the way?
Is anybody not sharper and more cunning and smarter than our leaders? Any country in the world?
Do we make any good deals any more on trade?
When was the last time you said “Oh gee, we beat China in a trade deal”? Doesn’t happen. “We beat Japan in a trade deal”?
…I was in Los Angeles. I see these ships come in. Biggest ships I’ve ever seen. Millions of cars coming into this country. Ships that are five times longer than this totally sold out building along with the amphitheaters by the way.
The press never reports that. They never report that. But that’s okay. I was actually going to bring the press, have them sit over here so they see.
But totally – just the biggest ships. Cars, cars, cars.
They just cut their yen. You know, they just cut their currency. Now it’s going to be even harder.
I tell this story. A friend of mine is a great excavator. This is what he does. He digs foundations. You didn’t think I know people like that. Those are my people, let me tell you. This guy’s great.
He’s a great excavator and he was very, very upset because his order for new excavation equipments and tractors.
I said, “What’s wrong with you?” He said, “Well, I didn’t buy Caterpillar. All my life I’ve bought Caterpillar and now I went to MatSu.”
I said, “Why did you do that?” He said, “Because Japan just cut their currency so low, Donald, that I had no choice. I had to do it. I feel so guilty. But I owe it to my wife and my family and my employees and the company that I built. They couldn’t compete with it.”
And I said, “Isn’t that sad?”
…That’s happening. It’s happening even worse with China. They manipulate their currency better than any country in the history of the world in history. History. They’re killing us.
And if you want to do business with China, it’s almost impossible because believe me they tax you. We don’t tax because we have people that are stupid.
You know, free trade – I believe in it. I believe in it. Totally. I’m a free trader.
The problem with free trade is you need smart people on our side. Okay? We need smart people. I could take some of the people up here. I could put them in. They’d do a great job.
But we need smart people. And when you don’t have smart people, free trade is not a good thing because it’s killing us. So I believe in free trade, but we’ve got to get the right people.
Now, China loves me. Who’s worse to China than I am?
I’m constantly talking about how they’re ripping us off everything else. And yet, I just signed a lease with the largest bank in the world from China. They’re in one of my buildings. I sell apartments for $25, $35, $45, $12, $9 million to people from China.
I own a big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco. I beat the people from China. I win against China.
You can win against China if you’re smart. But our people don’t have a clue.
We give state dinners to the heads of China. I said, “Why are you doing state dinners for them? They’re ripping us left and right. Just take them to McDonalds and go back to the negotiating table.” Seriously. It’s true.
So then they talk about the tone. You know, Hillary and all of them.
And then I see Rick Perry the other day and he’s so – you know, he’s doing very poorly in the polls. He put glasses on so people will think he’s smart and it just doesn’t work. You know, people can see through the glasses. But he’s got the glasses, the whole deal…I’d say he did a lousy job on the border.
You know, the new governor, Gov. Abbott, has put in things that should have been put in a long time ago.
But I see him – he’s so vicious. You know, used to be a really nice guy. He used to come to see me for contributions and support. All of a sudden, he wants to show that he’s a tough guy with Trump. So tough…He was very nasty.

And then you have this guy, Lindsey Graham, a total lightweight. He’s a guy in the private sector, he couldn’t get a job. Believe me. Couldn’t get a job.
He couldn’t do what you people did. You’re all retired as hell and rich. Okay? He wouldn’t be rich. He’d be poor.
But Lindsey Graham, now they say, “Donald, your language is inflammatory.”
Now, I went to the Wharton School of Finance. I was a great student. I built a fortune. I’ve had many bestsellers. The Art of the Deal is about the biggest selling business book of all time. Did a show that everybody said is going to fail called The Apprentice and it was a tremendous success. Tremendous. One of the most.
By the way, 14, 15 copies of the Apprentice – every one of them failed. And then they renewed it by the way. They thought I was going to do it. I said, “No, you don’t understand, NBC.” The head people from NBC and Comcast, they came to my office and they said – recently like a few months ago. They said, “Please, please don’t run. We’ve renewed The Apprentice.”
It did great. We had a good last season even after 12 years, 14 seasons. Had a great season.
And all these copies. Everybody did a copy. I won’t name the names because I don’t want to embarrass anybody. But you know important names. Not like Trump. But they’re important. And they all failed. Most of them immediately. Most of them immediately.
So NBC renews The Apprentice. Everyone said, “Well, I thought you were running for President.” I said I am. Well, they don’t understand. Well, I told them I’m not doing it. They didn’t believe me. Mark Burnett called me and he said, “They’ve given you a major renewal.” They did – 28 shows.
28 shows. That’s a lot. You know how much money I give up by doing this.
These politicians – they run and they run and they win and sometimes they lose and they keep running. That’s all they do is they run. Most of them don’t know what they’re doing. They just run. They’re like – you wind them up and they run for office.
They don’t do anything when they get there. I know them better than anybody.
So they say they didn’t like the way that, you know, I’m a little loud. I’m a little too strong for them. They don’t like it.
And then I watch this idiot Lindsey Graham on television today and he calls me a jackass. “He’s a jackass”.
You know, I built a company. They all said I’d never run. I announced that I was going to run. “Well, he’ll never file his form papers.” That was two weeks ago. I filed my form papers.
“Well, he’ll never file his financials.” And my financials are like, well, it’s like 98 pages.
By the way, a lot of these politicians haven’t filed them and they’re like half a page. And they still haven’t filed them. I’m the only one that’s filed practically.
A lot of these guys haven’t filed. That was one of the things that you’d have to do to get into the debates.
So everyone figured, “Well, we’ll keep Trump out of the debates because he’ll never file his financials because he doesn’t want to see – he doesn’t want people to see that maybe he’s not as wealthy as people thought.”
Well, it turned out that I’m much wealthier than people thought. I built a great company. I wanted to file if for no other reason I’m a private company. I can’t tell you how rich you are…But who the hell knows? Nobody knows how rich I am. So now I had to file. So it’s over $10 billion. Hundreds of millions of dollars. And I made $213 million filed certified on The Apprentice. Can you imagine they paid me $213 million?
So you know what that means when I give up The Apprentice to run to help you people straighten out this mess that everyone’s created – that the politicians and Obama have created? I mean it’s very expensive and it’s very everything and I don’t care.
And what I say about the $10 billion, it’s much more than that but that’s okay. I want to be conservative. When I say about the $10 billion, I’m not doing that to brag. Who cares? Who cares? If you have a billion, you can live very nice. I’m only kidding.
Who cares? What I’m saying is that’s the mindset that we need as a country.
We need to take back our jobs from China and other places. We need to make great deals with other countries.
Saudi Arabia – I like the Saudis. They’re very nice. I make a lot of money with them. They buy all sorts of my stuff. All kinds of toys from Trump. They pay me millions and hundreds of millions.
But you know what? They make $1 billion a day, folks. And whenever they’re in trouble, our military takes care. You know what we get? Nothing.
South Korea – crazy is right. Right? Who said that? Stand up. Stand up. He said it’s crazy. It’s true. It’s true. It’s crazy. They make $1 billion a day.

And by the way, Yemen – the war that Obama thought he won, remember a year ago? “Oh, Yemen, great! It’s over. It’s over.” Well, about two weeks later it was gone. They took all our equipments. They took all our trucks.
Think of this. We make 2,300 Humvees – armor-plated. The most incredible. As shots fired and the guys we gave them to – our allies – they run. One shot goes in the air, they run.
So the enemy takes over, 2,300 Humvees.
Now, when I saw the numbers, I said, “No, no, no. Two or three, you mean? Not 2,000. You mean they took over two or three?”
No, no. 2,300 armor-plated Humvees. Better than what we have. They were the best. The enemy has them.
We have such stupid leadership.
And if you think that with Yemen, you take a look at that border with Saudi Arabia, if you think they’re stopping at Yemen, they don’t Yemen. They want the oil. They’re going to go. That’ll be next.
Just like I predicted Iraq was going to be a disaster. I’m the only one who said don’t do Iraq.
If you look at Reuters July of 2004, headline “Trump says ‘Don’t do Iraq’”. And I’m the most militaristic person ever.
I will not only do great things for our vets – and I will take care of our vets. Our vets are treated like third class citizens.
But I’ll build – I will build a military that’s so strong that we’ll never have to use it because they’re going to say, “We’re not messing with that guy and we’re not messing with that country.”
Because our military is decimated.
I’m in the real estate business. All the time I get these listings. You know, a base, a naval base, an army base, a marine base. They’re always for sale! I say how many bases can they sell? I mean, they’re selling the bases. When you sell the bases, that means they’re closing up.
And right now, our military is the smallest it’s been in decades and we need it like more than ever.
And our vets are being treated worse than they’ve ever been. So the waiting list. Worst than they’ve ever been.
The waiting list as of this morning, I just saw a report – you know, they had the big thing when they had the scandal. Because this is the most corrupt thing you’ve ever seen.
And this is why I’m angry at John McCain for two reasons.
Number one, John McCain – you’ve got to remember this – he’s totally about open borders and all of this stuff.
And when I went to Arizona, he called these 15,000 unbelievable people – unbelievable. I know crazies, okay? I know crazies. These were unbelievable American people.
And John McCain who I supported for President – I think I raised him over $1 million and he lost. So he can lose. I don’t hold that against him. But I raised him a lot of money. But he called these people crazies.
There were so many they had to turn like I think 1,000 or 2,000 away like they did. I hear that they had to turn a lot of the people away. Even though they have the ante rooms all over the place, they had to turn people away. That’s the kind of crowds we’re getting.
But he said that.
And today, I hear the waiting list is the longest it’s ever been. I hear that it’s worse than it’s ever been.
And two years ago, remember, in order to get rid of all of the problems they threw more money at it.
But when you have incompetent people at the top – and they put in a new guy but he’s not the right guy. He doesn’t know what the hell he’s doing according to everybody I know. He has no clue.
I know the best people. I know the best managers. I know the best deal makers. I know people that will make us so strong. I know guys that are so good as managers.
A lot of times a deal maker isn’t a good manager. And then a manager isn’t a good deal maker.
But you look at Obamacare with the $5 billion website and the wonderful former governor who’s a wonderful woman didn’t have clue. She didn’t have a clue. It was a mess.
So how do you spend $5 billion on a website for something that has to be repealed and replaced with something much better? Has to be, has to be.
We have no choice. Because it’s bad for the people. The premiums are going through the roof.
The deductibles are ridiculous. You’re never going to use it unless you get hit by a Komatsu. It’s the only way you’re going to use it. It’s true. Not Caterpillar. We don’t buy them any more, remember.
So this guy Lindsey Graham gets out and he’s out there and he calls me a jackass.
I’m supposed to be – I’m trying to be nice. You know, I’m working hard to be nice.
But every time I turn on, I have some guy that is hitting me like hard.
Now, the reason that they’re hitting me in all fairness is when you register zero in the poll, what the hell, they have nothing to lose, right?
And then I thought to myself about Lindsey Graham. You know, I thought it was a very bad statement.
You know, you build a fortune. You’re a smart guy. You want to do something great for the country. I’m giving up millions of dollars.
I had Macy’s terminate a deal because “Oh, Don, you’re a little controversial. You’re talking about illegal immigration.” I said, “It’s illegal.” But they had no guts. No, it’s true. It’s true.

And all over the world, all over the world, a friend of mine calls me from Paris. “Oh, Donald, it’s so bad about losing NASCAR. I feel so badly for you.”
It says, “Trump loses NASCAR” headlines in their business paper in Paris and he calls me up to pay his condolences.
You know what? It was a banquet at the Doral. It’s a one-night banquet at the Doral. I’ll rent it to somebody else for more money in about two seconds in Miami.
The next day, “Trump loses ESPN”, “ESPN severs ties with Trump”. It was a golf outing for 120 golfers from ESPN at my course in Los Angeles. So now, they’re going to go to a crummy course because this course is much better than the alternate. It’s like not even a contest. So they’ll play this crummy course.
By the way, they’ll all be back next year. They already told me that. “Hey, Donald, we’re going to get out for a year. We’ll be back next year.” I said, “Okay, that’s okay.” I keep their deposit. No, 100%. 100%. I keep their deposit and I rent it. So I get two for the price of one. We know what that feeling is.
But you know, all over the place. Still it’s still a lot of money.
Then I sued Univision and NBC. That’s going to be easy. I mean, the whole thing is like ridiculous. So I give up a lot.
But this guy Lindsey Graham, he calls me a jackass this morning.
And I said to myself, “You know, it’s amazing. He doesn’t seem like a very bright guy.” Okay? He actually probably seems to me not as bright, honestly as Rick Perry. I think Rick Perry is probably smarter than Lindsey Graham. But what do I know?
Actually, I said about Rick Perry, he said that I shouldn’t be debating my spirit is wrong for America. Okay? All I want to do is make us rich, save your Social Security, stop having everyone rip us off, and I have bad spirit, right? So he said, “He shouldn’t be allowed on the debate stage.”
And then I tweeted – you know I have many millions between Facebook and Twitter. It’s great. It’s like owning a newspaper without the losses. It’s incredible. So I tweeted that Rick Perry should have to have an IQ test before getting on the debate stage. And people said I was tough.
But today, I got called a jackass by this guy. Then I said to myself, “Hey, didn’t this guy call me like four years ago?” Yes. He called me four years ago – three, four years ago. Lindsey Graham. I didn’t even know who he was.
He goes, “Mr. Trump, this is Sen. Lindsey Graham. I wonder if it would be possible for you to call Fox”…And he wanted to know whether or not I could give him a good reference on Fox and Friends. He wanted to know would I do that. And then of course he wanted to know whether or not if he could come and see if there’s some campaign contributions.
And you know, I give to everybody. People said, “Oh, you gave to the Democrats.” Of course, I do. “You gave to the Republicans.” “You gave to Hillary.” “You gave here.” Of course I do. I was a businessman until a few months ago.
When I want something – and that’s part of the problem with our system. Until a couple of months ago, I could have anything. Believe me. If a Republican wants, if a Democrat – I give. When I need something, I call. “Mr. Trump, sir, how are you? What can I do for you?” I said “Nothing really. Be at my wedding. Make sure, please.” Or whatever I want.
Part of the problem – see, with me, I don’t need anybody’s money. Nobody has to give to me. People are sending me money anyways. I said you don’t have to bother, please. Don’t bother. Don’t give me. I don’t need money. I’m doing it myself.
So when people come up to me and they say, “Mr. Trump, I’d like you to do this” which is good for him but bad for the country, I’ll say, “I’m sorry. I can’t do it.” Folks, I’m not doing it. I’m only doing the right thing.
So Lindsey Graham says to me “Please, please whatever you can do.” You know, I’m saying to myself, “What is this guy, a beggar?” He’s like begging me to help him with Fox and Friends. So I say, “Okay and I’ll mention your name.” He said, “Could you mention my name?” I said, “Yes.”
And he gave me his number and I found the card. I wrote the number down. I don’t know if it’s the right number. Let’s try it. 202-228-0292. I don’t know. It’s three, four years ago. So maybe it’s an old number. 202-228-0292. I don’t know. Give it a shot. Your local politician, you know? He won’t fix anything but at least he’ll talk to you.

So with the vets, I will get things fixed because that’s what I do. I make things better.
…We have to make our country better. We have to make our country stronger. And we have to make our country richer and we have to do it fast. We really have to do it fast because we don’t have that much time left.
We have to change our mindset in the United States.
Now, you know, I have a little statement – the American dream is dead. And to just show you how bad it is, the American dream is dead. But I’m going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
Because the press is very dishonest. And I say always, the American dream is dead but we’re going to make it bigger and better and everyone stands up and they go crazy and they applaud. And I mean it.
So my wife goes the other day I’m talking to her, she goes, “Oh darling. That was such a tough statement.” “What? What? I thought I did well.” And they turned it on. They have on television – TiVo. They have “The American dream is dead.” Cut. That’s the end. That’s a terrible segment.
So I say the American dream is dead. We’re going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. That’s what I’m going to do. I know how to do it. Politicians don’t know how to do it. They don’t know how to do it.
And I am so tired of politicians. Nobody knows them better than me. I know them. I know them. I deal with them.
If you can’t get rich dealing with politicians, there’s something wrong with you. Honestly. I know them.
The problem is with politicians and this is almost all of them, not all of them but the problem with politicians it’s perseverance. They work. They try. But they only want to keep their job. That’s 99% of what they want.
I get calls from Senators. Could we come and see you? You know, you have these campaign finance limits, which are actually a good thing…I even tell them – Senators call up, I send them a check – it’s easier. I say don’t bother. They want to fly from Washington to New York. I mean, how long. Come to my office and I’m allowed to give them what, $2,600 or something. I mean, like a whole day is wasted.
And I say this is what they do? And that’s what they do from morning ’till night.
And if you need something later on, they win their election or they lose their election, if you need something, you call them. They treat you great, like royalty. Like royalty.
And a businessman, a businessperson knows the game.
And what you look at, for instance, Jeb Bush. I’m not a fan of Jeb Bush because Jeb Bush is in favor of Common Core and he’s weak on immigration. Those are two bad things. I think he’s a nice person actually.
But he’s very in favor of Common Core, meaning he wants your children to be educated from Washington, D.C. by the bureaucrats. Okay? Not good.
And he’s very weak on immigration.
And he’s not a deal guy. He’s not a deal maker. Who would you rather have negotiating in China, as an example? Trump or Jeb?
Or Trump or Hillary? Okay, Hillary? She’s another one with the tone.
Isn’t it amazing they both said tone the same day. It was about the tone but they both said it the same day.
So I am very excited about this. It’s a very interesting situation that’s taken place.
We had a poll come out yesterday – the Washington Post poll with ABC and it showed that I had an 11 point lead. That’s faster than scheduled. That’s faster than scheduled.
I mean, that’s the good news. The bad news is it drives people crazy. And I don’t really know why. Because all I want to do is make our country great again.
You know, it’s like aren’t we all on the same track, whether you’re a liberal, a Democrat, a conservative, a Republican, or all of them? I mean, aren’t we all sort of on the same track? You want to make our country great.
I know people that are Democrats that love our country. I know people that are liberals, believe it or not, that love our country.
And if I can make phenomenal deals with China, which I will. I will, believe me. The best negotiators in the world, I know every one. I know the bad ones, good ones, the over-rated ones, the ones that you’ve never heard of that are better than all of the ones you read them all. I know them all.
I wrote the Art of the Deal. Right? We need the Art of the Deal. We need the Art. They never read it in this administration. They’re the only people that didn’t read it.

But if I can bring wealth in so that we can save your Social Security without cuts – all the Republicans are talking about “We’re going to cut. We’re going to raise the age. We’re going to do this. Your Medicare, your Medicaid, your Social Security.”
But I’m the only one who knows how to do it and the way you do it is you have to make our country vibrant so that we can afford it.
Right now we can’t afford it.
Our GDP went down in the first quarter. Like down.
China went up to 7% and they’re beside themselves “How come it only went up 7%?”
And China – one year ago it was announced, China now is the number one in the world. You know that? Economically, from the standpoint that so matters. China. It’s unthinkable.
We’ve allowed them. But it’s our money.
I mean, I love Apple. But where are they made? What do they have? They have an office here and all the workers are over there. We’ve got to change it around. We’ve got to incentivize them so that we make Apple and all the other things, they’ve got to be made here.
And if China isn’t treating us fairly, we have all the cards. The administration doesn’t know this.
If they’re taxing and we’re not taxing, which they do by the way, then we have to make sure that they pay a penalty and they will stop immediately. And if they don’t stop, we’ll get rich on receiving taxes from them. And we don’t even want to bring up the word.
So we’re going to save your Social Security. We’re going to make it strong and solid.
Medicare, Medicaid, we’re going to stop the waste and the abuse and the fraud that goes on.
We’re going to make proper deals. People mention the Iran deal as an example. What kind of a deal is this? What kind of a deal?
I mean, I’ve seen one-sided deals before. This is like Sergeant [Bowe] Bergdahl. We get a traitor – a no good rotten traitor like Bergdahl – and they get five killers that they most wanted in the whole world who are right now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody, including us. Okay? What kind of a deal is this?
Not good. Right?
…A lousy deal. But we only make lousy deals. I call Obama the 5 for 1 President. We get Bergdahl; they get five guys that they dreamed of.
And that’s the problem.
So the Iran deal – any time, anywhere, we want to be able to inspect. They got 24 days and notice provisions and all. By the time, it could be months and months and months. By that time it’s gone.
But you know what irks me? Look, having nuclear. My uncle was a great professor and scientist and engineer. Dr. John Trump at MIT. Good genes. Very good genes, okay? The Wharton School of Finance. Very good. Very smart.
You know, if you’re a conservative Republican – if I ran as a liberal Democrat, they would say I’m one of the smartest people anywhere in the world. It’s true.
But when you’re a conservative Republican, they try – oh, do they do a number…That’s why I always start – went to Wharton, was a good student, went there, went there, did this, build a fortune. You know, I have to give my credentials all the time because we’re a little disadvantaged.
But you look at the nuclear deal, the thing that really bothers me – it would have been so easy. And it’s not as important as these lives are – nuclear is so powerful.
My uncle explained that to me many, many years ago the power and that was 35 years ago. He would explain the power of what was going to happen and he was right. Who would have thought?
But when you look at what’s going on with the four prisoners. Now, it used to be three. Now it’s four. But when it was three and even now I would have said it’s all in the messenger.
Fellas. And it is fellas because you know they haven’t figured that the women are smarter right now than the men. So you know, it’s going to take them about another 150 years.
But the Persians are great negotiators. The Iranians are great negotiators. And they just killed. They just killed us. This is horrible.
But I would have said at the beginning, “Fellas, you’ve got to let our prisoners go. Look, you don’t need them. You don’t want them. It would send a great signal to the United States and it would make the rest of it easier.”
Nothing. We get nothing. We don’t the prisoners.
And Kerry said the other day and so did Obama – we didn’t want to negotiate and complicate the negotiations.
What’s complicated? Say, “Excuse me, we have four prisoners. We’d like to have them please.” Okay?
“Oh, it’s too complicated.” This is crazy.
Then we’re giving them billions and billions and billions of dollars. We shouldn’t give it to them. It should have been off the table. Why are we giving them?

So I said, “Why aren’t you bringing this up and not letting them have all this money?” And they didn’t want to do that either. They didn’t want to complicate it.
This is the most incredible.
And then of course we’re fighting them between Yemen, you know, where they’re representing the other side very successfully by the way and other places.
And they didn’t want to talk about the various hot spots because they didn’t want to complicate the negotiations.
And you know there’s a bad signal when you go across and you see on television the Iranian chief negotiator he goes home and they’re celebrating him in the streets. Right? They’re having parades. They’re honoring him.
…We’re like a bunch of slobs. We’re like a bunch of dopes.
We should have doubled up the sanctions, maybe tripled up the sanctions, sat back for about three months and let them call us. And believe me, I would have made one hell of a deal. That one’s easy. That one’s easy.
So it’s very, very sad.
And a lot of people think the reason I’m doing so well in polls – made a very good Iowa poll yesterday. But that I’m doing so well in the polls is that when North Carolina comes in – your neighbors – and I’m killing everybody in North Carolina. Hopefully, I’m going to do great in South Carolina…
…But when I do great in North Carolina, when I do great in Nevada, which just came out and I won the Hispanic vote. I won big league – the Hispanics. I’m telling you.
There is something happening. You know, there used to be the expression – many of you have heard it…the silent majority. There’s a silent majority out there. We’re tired of being pushed around, kicked around, and acting and being led by stupid people. They’re stupid people.
I mean, you have a President who can’t just say a few words: Put the flag at half mast for the five Marines that were just killed. Why? Why? Why?
I mean, think of it. How easy. It’s almost like “Doe he read the papers? Does he watch television?”
Every television. Whether it’s Fox or CNN or MS – any of them. They’re all talking about it. Like, “Oh, gee well.”
…Just put them at half mast for a week. These people were great. They never had a chance.
This gun-free zone nonsense. We’ve got to stick up for that Second Amendment. This gun-free zone – these guys never, ever had a chance.
And by the way, a couple of them, big, big decorations – decorated, tremendous, unbelievable, young, brilliant people – gone. They never had a chance. A gun-free zone. And they’re trained with weapons. It’s not like “Oh gee, it’s not good to have”. They’re trained. These are the best…They were sitting ducks. They never had a chance because of the stupidity.
We have to get rid of that whole gun-free zone nonsense and just stop it.
You know, in some of the communities, our recruiting stations and recruiting areas, they actually have civilians surrounding – can you believe this? – civilians surrounding that are armed to protect the military soldiers that are our best and finest. And they’re in there and they don’t have guns. So we have civilians surrounding. This is what our country’s come to.

And Kate [Steinle] from San Francisco. Obama calls everybody and he sends groups over and sends Attorney Generals over and does investigations. Tremendous, you know, everything at the funerals.
Kate from San Francisco. The parents never got a call. Killed by an illegal alien as we’ve discussed before. Never got a call. Never got.
Would you think like “Man, it’s terrible”?
…Nothing is going to bring her back but you’d think it would be nice if he called.
So it’s a very, very sad situation for our country. Our country is doing very poorly.
The real unemployment rate is probably 21%. Some people think it’s much higher than that. You know, this 5.3% and 5.5%. It’s total non – you know, you give up looking for a job and you’re considered employed. It’s a total joke.
Bunch of clowns. Bunch of real clowns.
But we probably have 21%.
A report came out two weeks ago and said it’s actually 42%. The real rate is actually 42%. Could be. But I’m saying 19% to 21%.
We have negative growth. We have every country that we do business with looks at us as a patsy, stupid, stupid people. And everybody is ripping us left and right, no matter whether it’s militarily, whether it’s with ISIS.
I mean, we can’t beat ISIS. Tell that to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, we can’t beat ISIS. Tell that to Gen. George Patton. “Oh General, we can’t beat ISIS.” Okay?
Did you ever see Obama at a news conference explaining when and where we’re going to raid the enemy? “In two weeks, we’re going in through the back”.
I’m saying can you imagine George Patton lying in his grave. He’s spinning like a saucer. “I can’t believe what I’m hearing.”
And then they said, “Oh good. That’s smart because that’s camouflage.”
And he does it and it turns out to be a tough battle because they’re ready.
We need smart leader. We need brilliant leadership. We have to make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

That’s right. We’re going to make a tour. We’ll go the border. And we’ll see you later. Hopefully, we’ll see you later.
How do you feel about the union – the border union – backing out?
Well, they’re petrified and they’re afraid of saying what’s happening. You know, they’re the ones that invited me. They wanted to give me an award.
And the border patrol – they’re petrified of saying what’s happening because they have a real problem here. And I’m talking about on the whole border.
And they invited me and all of a sudden they were told – silencio – they want silence.
So it’s a problem that we will get straighten out.
If I win, believe me, we’ll get things straighten out.
Well, they say it’s a great danger but I have to do it. I love the country. There’s nothing more important than what I’m doing.
And I’m the one that brought up the problem of illegal immigration.
And it’s a big problem. It’s a huge problem.
You folks know it better than anybody.
And you look at the crowds outside. We have big crowds that are all screaming in favor of Trump. Everybody wants me because they want the problem fixed.
We have to have legal immigration.
Yeah, we want to get the legal immigration in. We want legal immigration.
Well, I think Rick Perry did a terrible job as the governor of Texas where the border security was terrible.
Now, your new governor of Texas I think is doing a great job – Abbott. Gov. Abbott’s doing a great job.
But Rick Perry, honestly, I don’t think he even understands…
Oh, he’s following in my lead, absolutely. I mean, we’re the ones that brought up – you know, I took a lot of heat the first week. And then the second week, everybody realized that I was right.
…You know, one other thing. I employ thousands and thousands of Hispanics. I love the people. The Latinos. I love the people. They’re great. They’re workers. They’re fantastic people.
But they want – and they want – these people that work for me – they want legal immigration. They want it to be legal. They don’t want the illegal immigration with all the tremendous amount of crime that already even today I’m hearing about.
And people are saying “Oh, it’s so dangerous. What you’re doing, Mr. Trump, it’s so dangerous. What you’re doing.”
I have to do it. I have to do it.

It has provided us an opportunity to present to Mr. Trump and his entourage what Laredo is all about.
You know, Laredo is the number one land port in the nation. We do – Laredo, per se, does over 40% of the Mexican trade.
Laredo is known for obviously transportation. You could see the big trucks behind us and logistics.
We are – NAFTA has been very good to us. We’re excited about that.
We also have oil and gas production at the county and it also provides a revenue to us.
Mr. Trump has brought up certain issues – about the immigration issue in particular.
We, at least I feel personally, that immigration reform is required, is needed. We need protection in the border area. We need to secure the border but we also need other elements. You know, obviously, the immigration act or bill.
So with that in mind, it’s a pleasure to have Mr. Trump. The excitement that he brings is also very on the plus side for our city, and we appreciate all of the attention but we know that the attention comes from really through this gentleman here.
Mexico is booming, absolutely booming.
And Jesus – the city manager – and Pete have done an amazing job right here. But a lot of what’s happening here is because of the fact that Mexico is doing so well. Just doing beyond what anybody ever thought and I don’t know if it’s good for the United States but it’s good for Mexico…
So I have a great relationship. Over the years, thousands and thousands of Hispanics have worked for me and now work for me, and the relationship is very good.
And in fact, as you know, the border patrol was the one that invited me. I think most of you have that invitation. We sent it. The border patrol invited me and then they cancelled because frankly they don’t want to get involved…The reason they invited me was because of the tremendous problem and the tremendous crime and all of the things that I’ve been talking about.
So they invited me and then at the last moment – I mean, we were virtually in the air – and they said, “We can’t get involved.” And I heard they got those orders from Washington.
Come on, Jesus, say a word. This man – I’m going to steal him to run something for me. He’s fantastic.
You know, this is one of the greatest cities on the border and we’re a vibrant city.
And as Mr. Trump mentioned, you know, the trade that we have here with Mexico, this is where the rubber meets the road. And all of you can see it right behind us, this is where all the trade comes through that Mexico and the United States have in common right here.
And not only that but this is where it goes to the rest of the world.
And I’ll tell you, what we wouldn’t be where we are if it wouldn’t be for the support that Mayor and members of the City Council that are also here with us – Mr. Councilmember [Juan] Narvaez and Councilmember [Alejandro] Perez – we are very fortunate to have the support that they provide us in order for this city to be such a great city and the number one inland port in the country.
Thank you.
I think right now, we have a process that we work together with Border Patrol, CBP, and everybody to be able to get some of these things done.
The relationship that the city of Laredo has with the federal government with all the law enforcement agencies is a tremendous one. Thank you.
…You have to create – you have to make the people that come in, they have to be legal. Very simple.
They want to do their job. That’s why they invited me. They invited me. I didn’t come here.
The border patrol invited me because they got such a problem.
They want to be able to do their job. If they can’t do their job, believe me, they’re unhappy. They want to be able to do their job.
By the way, the wall will save you a tremendous amount of money, but you absolutely – there are areas you have to have the wall.
The best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run probably against Hillary. Hillary is the worst. Look, easily, she’s the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. She’s going to be beaten and I’m the one to beat her.
And I will take jobs back. And the reason I won with the Hispanic vote and I win all over with the Hispanic vote because they know I’ll take jobs back from China, I’ll take jobs back from Japan, and every other country that’s killing us. I’ll bring the jobs back.
And you know, the Hispanics are get those jobs and they’re going to love Trump and they already do.
Thank you very much.

This is absolutely unbelievable. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you.
So this began as 500 people in a ballroom in Phoenix. And the hotel called us up and they said, “Please don’t do it here. We’re going to be swamped. It’s going to destroy the building. It’s been amazing.”
And outside, sadly, we have thousands of people that can’t get in. So you know real estate. You know real estate.
I want to thank everybody. You know, last night – and a lot of you saw it on television – it was actually carried live – we had an amazing event and a very sad event. And yet, very beautiful. Because the word is getting out that we have to stop illegal immigration. We have to. We have to.
We have a situation that’s absolutely out of control.
We have incompetent politicians, not only the President.
I mean, right here in your own state, you have John McCain. I just hate to see when people don’t have common sense, don’t have an understanding of what’s going on, or perhaps don’t want to know. Maybe it’s campaign contributions. Maybe it’s special interest. Maybe it’s lobbyists. But for some reason, some people don’t get it and I don’t think they’ll be in office much longer. I really mean that.
We are going to make this country so great again. We are going to work so hard.
And I will say this: When we had our event last night, I saw hardened veteran reporters who were crying. You had to see this. People that I’ve known for a long time that I don’t even like – they’re not good people.
How are you doing back there?
And one in particular, tears are streaming down his face and I’m saying – I don’t believe what I’m seeing. I didn’t think he had a tear in him.
And some of the people that spoke were absolutely amazing.
One, their child was killed by an illegal immigrant, shouldn’t have been here.
And this began for me – it’s very interesting because when I started and when I announced – don’t forget, everybody said, “He’s never going to run.” Right?
Then they said very strongly – you know, these are very knowledgeable people; they don’t know anything. Then they said, “He’ll never file his FEC paper.” I filed that two weeks ago. They said, “Oh, wow.”
Then they said, “He’ll never file his financials because he’s not as rich as people think.” And they get filed during this week. And by the way, some of the other candidates will not be filing from what I hear. Okay?
And when they filed, the number is actually much higher than anybody ever knew. And I’m not saying that to brag. I’m only saying that because that is the kind of thinking our country needs.
We need thinking where trade deals with China, with Japan, with India, with everybody. We’re getting ripped. We’re being taken apart piece by piece, slowly. Slowly.
China laughs at us. They laugh at our stupidity. They laugh at our incompetent politicians. They have geniuses negotiating for them. We have people who don’t have a clue; they don’t have a clue.

Mexico – and by the way. Officially – and I’ve only said this about 200 times but it never gets reported. I love the Mexican people. I love the spirit of the Mexican people. I love them.
Many, many people from Mexico – legal. They went in the old fashioned way. They’re legal.
Many, many people from Mexico work for me. And over the years, thousands of people – Hispanics – have worked for me. And many, many work for me now by thousands. They’re incredible people.
By the way, nobody ever says that. Nobody ever says that. They always cut that out.
And I’ll go a step further. I respect Mexico greatly as a country. But the problem we have is that their leaders are much smarter, sharper, and more cunning than our leaders, and they’re killing us at the border and they’re killing us in trade. They’re killing us.
And every once in a while I’ll see a rally and it’s put up by the Mexican government in my opinion. People come in. They’re so perfect. They’re like central casting. And you know how long the rallies last? Like about 12 minutes. They go home.
But when you do – I’ve said this often. It’s very, very hard for a very successful person – and I’ve heard it from the time I was a little boy – to run for President or even political office. And I find it and I have headlines everyday. “ESPN drops Trump”.
A friend of mine in Paris called. “Oh Don, it’s too bad about ESPN.” You know what they were doing? They rented my golf club for a day. They put up a big deposit. I took their deposit. And then I rented it to somebody else. I made two for the price of one. No, it’s true.
Then the next day all over the world, “NASCAR drops Trump.” NASCAR. NASCAR. And then friends of mine call up from Europe. Headlines – NASCAR. “Don, it’s too bad about NASCAR. I feel so – “ You know what that one was? They rented a banquet hall at Trump National Doral in Miami for one evening. I took their deposit – I took their deposit. And you know what? I just rented it for much more money than they were paying. So it’s two for the price of one.
You know, I may make money running for President. It’s very interesting.
Then all over the place, I hear Macy’s. Now, Macy’s hurts because the head of Macy’s I thought was a great friend of mine – Terry Lundgren. Nice guy. He called me up, and I’m in New Hampshire and I’m getting ready to go on to make a speech.
Sort of interesting. It’s like 6:30 in the evening, and I get a call from Terry Lundgren of Macy’s.
And the speech is packed. It was a house. It was supposed to be in the house. They didn’t have enough room. They had 300, 400 people and they never thought this was going to happen. They thought there were going to be 30 like this. This is a little larger but the same thing proportionally.
So my phone rings – my cell phone, and it’s Terry Lundgren of Macy’s. And the man on stage is getting ready to introduce me. And he said, “And you know, we have Donald Trump – the American dream” and blah, blah, blah, blah – everything. And my phone rings during the introduction. I’m going to be going up there like in a minute.
And he goes – “Donald, hi.” He’s like my best friend. I said, “Terry, what’s your problem?” He said, “You’re very controversial.” He said – and I’m supposed to be going up. I’m supposed to make a speech. I got all these people.
And by the way, cameras – just like all these cameras – you have all these cameras – we’re on live television all over the place like we are now.
And he said, “Donald, I had calls from Hispanic people saying they’re going to boycott Macy’s. I don’t know what to do.”
I said, “Terry, be tough. They’ll be gone. One day, one day.”
Now, this is a man I played golf with. I’m with him all the time. I mean, really was, was, was – you understand – because I don’t forget things…
He said to me, “Please, please, Donald. Can I cut you?”
It’s not a big deal. I’m selling ties. And honestly, you know what? They were made in China so I didn’t care that much. I was like screw it.

So I’m walking up the stairs to make a speech and I have Lundgren saying “I’d like to cut you” because he’s going to get some bad publicity, he thinks.
And I walked upstairs and he said, “And now the American dream – “. And I’m still talking to Lundgren, and it’s like a minute and a half before I walk on stage. People said, “What happened?” And I made a good speech. No notes. No nothing. And everybody was happy. And I just got cut from Macy’s.
And here’s the bottom line on Macy’s. Thousands and thousands of people are cutting up their Macy’s credit card. Thousands.
Then I get a call from NBC. Now, let me tell you about NBC. No, no, I got to tell you. Hey, look, I love the people at NBC. We had a tremendous success with The Apprentice. And they renewed The Apprentice.
See? I give up a lot. You’re going to see how much money I made with The Apprentice come Wednesday or Thursday when I do my filing. Seriously. It’s a very lucrative – you know, it’s great when you have a big television show. It’s like, you know, you’re a movie star; you get a lot of money. Right? Not that much but a lot. But you’re going to see very impressive numbers.
So NBC calls me – “We’d like to see you.”
Now, they don’t care about inclusion. They were talking about inclusion. You know, they write their press release. So, I read this and I say, “This is incredible”.
But they called me and a couple of months ago the head of NBC comes to see me. And the head of NBC’s boss – I don’t want to mention names because they’re really good people. They’re friends of mine although I’ll probably never speak to them again either.
And you know, the head of NBC’s boss – that’s Comcast because they own NBC.
So I get a call – the head of reality for NBC, the head president of NBC, and the head of everything – the head of Comcast. And they come to see me a number of months ago, “Please do The Apprentice. Please.” They won’t deny it. They won’t deny it.
I said, “I can’t. I want to make America great again.”
I’ve done The Apprentice now for 12 years and it’s a great show. For 12 years. There have 14 or 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every one have failed. Every single one. I mean, I could give you names but I don’t want to embarrass people.
Nah, give you a couple of names.
No, nice people. Mark Cuban did one called The Benefactor. It was a disaster. Richard Branson did one. Great guy but it didn’t work out. Tommy Hilfiger, who I love. A tenant in my building. Great guy. Didn’t work out. Hiltons did one.
Martha Stewart did one for us. Did one for Mark Burnett and Donald Trump. Martha Stewart. She’d just got out of the can. No, it’s true. She’s hot as a pistol. You know, they showed her coming out. You know, she’s got the whole thing with the whole outfit that she’s wearing. The whole thing. I said, “What a great idea.”
So we actually did The Apprentice done by us. It wasn’t even a copy. It was called The Apprentice. Within a couple of shows it was over. It was over.
So I must have something, right? I must have.
So here’s the story. NBC sees this. I mean, they’re smart people. So NBC comes to my office and they want me to do The Apprentice so badly. And what do I do? I said, “I can’t. I’m going to run for President.”
And I said, “Because of equal time – “ Now, you know what equal time. Such a stupid law. Obama can go on television all day long and be President and run for office. But if I have a television show, what happens is everybody running for office would have to be able to do The Apprentice. Equal time.
So you’ll have a good guy named Rick Santorum. You’ll have all these guys.
You’ll have somebody who used to head up Lehman Brothers – the governor from Ohio. Headed up Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers almost took down the world. He was a managing partner. I think he’s a nice man. I don’t know. But I know if you’re the managing partner of Lehman Brothers, Lehman Brothers almost – you’re not looking too good. You know.
But all of these guys, they would have to be given two hours in primetime television on Monday or Sunday night. I don’t think so.

So they came to my office and they said, “We’d like you to do it. So important.”
And by the way, they renewed The Apprentice. It was really very interesting because a lot of people said, “Well, how could – “ at the upfront, they announced The Apprentice, which is good because I always want to be loved, you know?
Like when I went on dates, if a woman dropped me – which happened often – I would always like to say or at least in my own mind that I dropped her. Does that make sense? So what happened – makes me feel better.
So they renewed The Apprentice and I said I’m not going to do it because I’m going to run for President. They didn’t believe me.
I said, “Why won’t you believe me?”
“Why would you give up a primetime show?”
Mark Burnett calls from – a great guy. Survivor, Apprentice. Great guy. He really is a wonderful guy and a friend of mine. He calls me, he goes, “Donald, they’re giving you an extension. Nobody turns down an extension.” He said, “I’ve never heard of it before.”
I said, “Mark, I’m going to run for President.” Nobody believed me.
Then I run. And the guys, they’re in my office and they said “Run and then by September, we’ll do something.” Do you believe that? Do you believe that?
And I said, well if I don’t do well, I would have done that. You know, why not? You know, if I’m not doing well, if it’s obvious I’m – there’s a problem. We just went to number one in the polls.
So, NBC went nuts. They renewed their show and they don’t have their star and everybody else failed with similar shows. And they’re angry at me.
So again, don’t believe the inclusion. They’ve got Rev. Al Sharpton working for them. Okay? He’s actually not a bad guy. He’s a con man. You’d have to understand it. Rev. Al is a con man. You know, tells people “I’m going to picket you if you don’t give.” I mean, this guy is a con man.
But I’ve known him for 20 years. He’s fine. You’ve got to understand who you’re dealing with.
They’ve got lying Brian Williams. He’s okay.
They sent me the most beautiful present a couple of months ago. Hundreds of – I shouldn’t say the name because I deal with all of them – but in this case, Titleist. They sent me hundreds and hundreds of Titleist golf balls. Top of the line. They sent them to me…Card – “From your friends at NBC”. A short time later, they say “He’s not inclusive” – me.
I’m more inclusive than anybody. More inclusive than anybody.
I then get a call. Univision. Now, Univision controls and by the way, believe me. Univision has a certain power. Now, I didn’t know much about Univision. I thought they were very wealthy. They’re actually not wealthy at all. They’re highly over-levered. They’ve got like, I think, $10 billion in debt. They have to do an IPO.
Now, how stupid is this? They could have waited a couple of weeks, done their IPO, and be done. Instead, they do it early. They couldn’t do it fast enough because you know why?
In my opinion, it’s only my opinion, the Mexican government totally tells Univision – it’s about 80% of their market – totally tells Univision what to do. Totally.
So the Mexican government is not happy with me, to put it mildly.
But again, I respect Mexico but their leaders are too smart for our leaders because we have stupid leaders. Okay?
And I’ll tell you, just between you – just between this little bit of a group – thank you very much…

So the Mexican government does not care about the border nearly as much as they care about the bad trade deals that the United States is making with Mexico. That’s really what it’s all about. That’s really what it’s all about.
So, I just sued Univision for $500 million.
With all of that being said, we have to be strong. We have to take our country back. We have to run the country properly.
So, I’m going to bring up a man who’s a great man. He’s a great, great guy. I saw him the other day on television.
Don’t worry. It’s okay. You can shout. I wonder if the Mexican government sent them over here; I think so. Because I’m telling you, I tell about the bad deals that this country is making. Mexico – I respect the country. They’re taking our jobs. They’re taking our manufacturing. They’re taking our money. They’re taking everything, and they’re killing us on the border. And Mexico does not like it.
So remember this. Don’t worry. We’ll take our country back very soon. Very soon.
So the other day, you know it’s funny, I got a great review for a speech, including my opening speech when I announced I’m running for President.
It wasn’t until five days later that people started saying, “Oh he said something -“
What they don’t say is they cut it in the middle of the sentence. They cut it. Because those people – many of them – not all, some are great – but many of them are very dishonest people, meaning the press. Very dishonest. Very dishonest.
I’ll give you one quick example because I want to bring somebody up for a second who’s fantastic. But I’ll give you one quick example.
I say – and it’s fairly standards because I believe it strongly – “The American dream is dead but I’m going to make it bigger and stronger and better than ever before.” Right? Right?
So and I say it usually once during a speech, every once in a while. You know, I don’t use teleprompters like the President and I speak from the heart.
So I say “The American dream is dead but I’m going to make it” – it’s standard – “bigger, better, and stronger.”
Okay, so now I go home and my wife says to me, “Darling, that was such a tough statement.”
What? I turned on the television. “The American dream is dead.” Period. Cut. I said, “Oh, what a horrible statement.”
They are so dishonest. They are so dishonest.
You know, what I usually do because if you really love this country, you have a very, very hard convincing people what you’re doing is right and that you’re really smart.
And like a lot of us are really smart. I’m like really smart. Went to the Wharton School of Finance. Even then a long time ago, like the hardest or one of the hardest schools to get into. Did well at the school. Came out, made a fortune. Wrote a book called “The Art of the Deal”.
Did everybody read “The Art of the Deal”? They say the number one selling business book of all time, which I agree, but I’ll say one of them because if I’m slightly off by two copies, they’ll say “Oh, Trump exaggerated.”
…Wrote many bestsellers. Many. I think 12.
So I did a lot of things. But “The Art of the Deal” was like the number one selling business book of all time. Great.
Then I do The Apprentice, became this tremendous hit. NBC was desperate to have it. Forget it. Now, they can put somebody else that lasts.
Okay. So ready? And then I hear like “Donald Trump doesn’t deserve to be on the same stage with some failed Senators, failed governor” or something. It’s sort of amazing, isn’t it? Isn’t it amazing?

And the poll just came out and I’m tied with Jeb Bush. And I said, “Oh that’s too bad. How can I be tied with this guy? He’s terrible!”
He’s weak on immigration. You know, the sanctuary cities. Did you know that he had five of them in Florida while he was governor? Can believe this? I didn’t know that – I just – five of them.
He’s totally in favor of Common Core, meaning your children in Phoenix and other places are going to be educated by bureaucrats from Washington, who for the most part just want to pick up a check. Give me break. And he’s in favor.
I don’t see him as a factor and I know it’s the Bush name, which you know has gotten us into lots of wars. I mean, in all fairness, not the greatest. But Jeb Bush – I don’t get it.
So when they said, “Mr. Trump, you’re in first place.” “Oh that’s good.” “You’re tied with Jeb Bush.” I said, “That’s not good. How can I be tied with this guy?”
But I’ll tell you what, I’m going to bring up a man to just a few words. His son was viciously and violently shot by an illegal immigrant. His son was a star athlete, a star student. He applied to Stanford and many great colleges. He would have been – he could have gone anywhere.
And I met Jamiel on television about a week ago. I see this guy. He’s mentioning my name. I said, “Oh no, not again” because I figured he’s killing me like everybody else. Right?
My wife said, “No, I think he’s saying some really good things.” I said, “I doubt it.” You know, they’re hitting me left, right.
I said, “I doubt it.” But I turned it up and he said, “The only man that’s sticking up for us is Donald Trump.”
This guy is great, and we were at the news conference with his mother and his sister yesterday and it was one of the most incredible things.
So I’d like to introduce to speak a little bit about his son and how incredible his son was and how his son should be here with us. I mean, his son should be alive and he should be in one of the great colleges and he should be maybe someday in the NFL. But he won’t be because an illegal immigrant shot him violently.
And this guy is the best guy. He’s become my friend. He’s been with me for a few days. And just say a few words about your boy.
And he was a good kid. I’m sorry. He was a good kid. He was a good kid.
He was – we thought we did a good job. You know, when he was five-years-old, I started training him to get him ready. My goal was to get him ready for the ninth grade, which was high school. And we know high school football is big time. You know you have to really start early. We were doing the pop warner. We were doing everything.
And I was on his case 24/7. I was one of those hands-on dads like my dad was. He was hands-on. You know, he was hands-on and the belt on.
You know, I respected my father. I was scared of him more than I was scared of the police. So I made sure I could do nothing wrong.
And I wanted my son to be the same way. I didn’t want to have to spank him. I want him to do what I say because it’s the right thing to do and he want to make it in life.
So we trained, we trained. We got to high school and he just really. It was unbelievable. I was starting to getting scared. It’s too good to be true. You know, he was three time MVP. He was in the eleventh grade. All three years MVP. Player of the Year. All City.
I’m sure people here know what I’m talking about with their kids went through that kind of stuff. You know the hard work and the sacrifices that the kids have to do. And the parents – you know, my weekends was his. You know, I had to go and take care of everything.
So one Sunday we went to Pasadena at a training clinic for Division I prospects. So he was like wow. He was like, “Man, dad, we did it.”
So to make a long story short, on our way home, he asked me if he could go to the mall and of course I didn’t want to. But you know, “All right, man. What time are you going to be home?” He said – I said, “Well, be home by 7 p.m.” It was like 3 p.m., you know, still early.

“Hey, we’re coming home from the mall. We missed the bus. You know, we’re safe, dad. We’re safe.”
Because he knew that’s all I was – I said, “Make sure to call me. I would have came and got you.”
So I started calling him an hour, calling him an hour. I said, “Where are you?”
He said, “Right around the corner, old man.” You know, that’s what he called me.
And I was like, whew. I felt really good inside. I thought, “Whew, he made it home.”
You know, I live in LA. You know, so, he had a little brother – eight-years-old. He got his clothes on. We were getting ready to go get some track spikes. He had a track meet that Friday. This was Sunday night.
So you know, a couple of minutes later, gunshots. I mean, really loud, really crispy. So I knew. Oh my God, it was outside my house.
Called his cell phone. Didn’t answer. Man, I knew. I went outside and looked down the street. There he was laying on the street dead.
You know, I couldn’t believe it.
Even right now when I say it, you know, I don’t believe it.
You know, he was laying there with his eyes closed towards the house. Looked like he was sleeping. Looked like he was sleeping. But his body – I’ve never seen a dead body before – and his body was obvious. He was dead.
And I remember, you know, it’s hard situation to go through.
After all that, I found that the guy who killed him was illegally in the country. Come on. You know, that’s – I thought somebody black did it…Found out that the guy was on his third gun charge.
Now, you have somebody illegally in the country on their third gun charge. He’d been arrested three times already. He’s in jail again.
Assault with deadly weapon. Battery on a peace officer. They gave him eight months in the county jail. Eight months. Let him out four months early.
Now, this was 18th Street gang member in the gang database. He’s been arrested twice for gun charges, stabbed people, put schools on lockdown. Just really violent, you know. And these were the ones that Obama said they wanted – the violent ones, the gang bangers, the ones with guns.
He was released on a Saturday night without any supervision. Sunday night he was in my neighborhood. My son coming home from the mall. You know, he went to my neighbor’s house. That’s why he was in my neighborhood.
To make a long story short, he went to my neighbor’s house, knocked on the door; he wasn’t home. On the way back to his car saw my son coming. Ran right over there. He was on the phone with his girlfriend when he heard the guy ask – well, my son was telling his girl, “Oh, something is going wrong. This ain’t right. What should I -” You know that kind of stuff. And she was like “Run, run!”
It was too late.
She heard the guy say, “What sect you from?”
And then he killed him. Shot him in the stomach. You know, one of the neighbors saw it. Shot him in the stomach with a .45. So you can imagine. A .45, a 17-year-old kid, shot him in the stomach. While he was one the ground, pointed to the corner, he had his hands up like this and he shot him through his hands.
They thought he had three – they thought he had three gun shots because his hand was really badly damaged, a bullet wound in his stomach, and one in his head.
The coroner said he was on his back, went like this, and he shot him through his hands into his head.
Now, we hear all the time “Michael Brown. Hands up, don’t shoot.” Now, that was really hands up, don’t shoot. I’m sure he wasn’t saying anything because he just had a bullet wound in his stomach.
But if you could imagine your child – I tell people all the time when they protest or they protest Mr. Trump, what you have to do is so soul-search. Put yourself in my shoes. Think about your child laying on the street dead. Your mother, your wife, your father, anybody. We’re not designed for that, you know?  Then to find out someone illegally in the country did it.
So when I found out – you know, I’m going to move on to Donald Trump. When I found out Donald Trump was running for office, I watched him because everybody likes Donald Trump. If it had nothing to do with the presidency, you want to see what he’s got to say.
So I looked. I saw what he was saying and he was talking about saving the country.
People, my friends were calling me. Liberal friends calling me, “Turn the TV on. Donald Trump is talking about helping America.”
You know, I turned it on and I saw it. When I saw it, I was so happy. For the first time in seven years, I feel hope, real hope. You know, I felt real change. You know?
And one thing Donald Trump showed me when he came out aggressive like he did at that, he can weather a storm. You know? We need somebody who can weather a storm. No one else, no one else can lose that kind of money and still be able to do what they’ve got to do. You know what I mean?
You know, I tell people all the time: The only difference between me and Donald Trump is that he doesn’t care what’s going on because he had the resources.
I don’t care. I don’t have nothing. I have nothing to lose. You know what I mean?
So it’s like a team. You know, they can’t stop us.
And you know, we really got to get him in here. He loves America. You know, I would tell you, I’m serious, if Donald Trump wasn’t a real deal, I wouldn’t have come around him because, you know, my son was murdered, so I don’t trust nobody.
You know, I mean, I think everybody, you know, if you’re not against illegal immigration, you’re my enemy. I can’t help that. That’s how I feel. My son was murdered. You have to understand that.
You have to understand – what would you expect from your government? What would you expect from a politician that’s running for office? What would you expect if your son was dead, your daughter, your mother? What would you expect from him? You would expect for him to go out there and fight for us.
Who do we have? You know, he’s the only one – he’s the only that’s talking about saving our country.
All the Republicans – we were going to be bamboozled. Donald Trump exposed them all. Because they were all going to say, “We’re going to save the border” and they did nothing. Now, they’re after him. So what are they going to do for us? Nothing.
We have to trust Donald Trump the way you trust your mom, your dad, as you were growing up. You don’t have to believe everything they believe. You don’t have to do whatever they say. But you have to trust them. That’s your mom, that’s your dad. It’s somebody you have to believe in.
Like I always say when people don’t want to hear what I have to say, ask yourself what would you do if somebody killed your kids?

Thank you Jamiel. So, amazing story.
By the way, Jamiel’s sister is here too and she told me the story that when Jamiel saw the boy, saw the boy laying on the sidewalk dead, this incredible young man with such a future, Jamiel laid down on the sidewalk and started pounding the sidewalk with his hand and badly damaged his hand. Badly, badly. He couldn’t understand it. He couldn’t believe it.
Just an amazing guy. I mean, just an amazing guy. And he wasn’t being heard. He wasn’t being heard.
And the only reason I heard him was because he was talking on a show and he was mentioning how badly they’ve all been treated.
And then you have in San Francisco, a beautiful young woman, Kate, and killed by somebody that just pleaded innocent. First pleaded guilty. Now he has a good lawyer and went into court and pleaded innocent.
And they’ll be playing around with him for about 15 years in court and probably he’ll get off too.
It’s a horrible thing that’s going on with our country.
And these are two people that should be alive. And these are people that shouldn’t have been in this country. They flow in like water.
And I love legal immigration. I love it. I love it. I think it’s great. My wife is a legal immigrant. I mean, she went through a whole long process. It’s not easy, and we should maybe make it easier and faster, which I think is fine.
And we’ll have great people come in, and we’ll have them come in from all countries – Mexico – everybody, every place. These are great people.
And you know, one of the things that I’ve seen – because this has been an amazing week – and you know, it’s been like an incredible week because I thought I was going to be the jobs person because every poll – CNN did a poll the other day – I’m killing everybody on jobs. I’m killing everybody on leadership. You know, it’s like funny. You know, I went through these different categories – the only thing I’m not killing, a lot of people don’t like me. I said what difference does it make. This is about competence.
Somebody said, “You win on leadership by far. You win on absolute economic, financial – anything having to do with the economy. You’re like lapping the field. Much, much higher than anybody else. But they said, but a lot of people don’t know whether or not they like you.”
I’m actually a nice person. But I actually said if I’m winning in all these categories, why are we even going through primaries?
Hillary Clinton is going to be a horrible President. It’s horrible. If she even wins her own primary, which I don’t know.
And by the way, just so you understand, even then press will say “This crowd today blows away anything that Bernie Sanders is having.” That I could tell you.
But if you think about it, Hillary Clinton was the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. The worst. The world blew up around her. Our enemies are a disaster and they hate us more. Our friends are all gone. They’re all gone.
They’re all sort of like – we don’t get along with anybody. Everybody is ripping us off, whether it’s Russia or China.

You know what we’ve done? For 20 years, I’ve heard the worst thing that could happen would be if Russia or China start uniting. We united them because we did things that were very onerous, because Obama doesn’t like Putin and Putin doesn’t respect or like Obama.
And all of a sudden, Russia and China now are doing all sorts of things together. So we’ve driven them together and I’ve always heard that’s a disaster, and it is a disaster. We have driven them.
So, Hillary Clinton was the worst. Now, tell me something – why? Just tell me why would she be a good President? She’d be terrible.
Who would you rather have negotiating a deal – a trade deal – with anybody? Trump or Hillary?
Well, we have to get there first.
So, who would you rather have negotiating a really good deal with Mexico, China, Japan? Trump or Jeb Bush?
So, when I started, I really thought it would be, you know, a long slog, and I was okay with it. I didn’t think that the immigration thing would take on a life like it has.
I made some very tough statements about people flowing through because that’s one of the things to make our country great again we have to create borders, otherwise we don’t have a country.
So it’s one of many things.
And I’ve been very strong. It’s one of many things. We have to make great trade deals and all.
So I said strong borders – one of the things. I said trade deals. Who would do better?
I’ll tell you what. I know the greatest negotiators in the world. Some are horrible people; horrible human beings. Who cares? Some Wall Street guys, they’re brutal, they’re miserable. You wouldn’t want to go out to dinner – they’re terrible people. I love them.
I know the best. I know people that are totally overrated. They’re not good like they think and like the press thinks.
I know people that you never heard of that are better than all of them.
I would take one, put him in charge of Japan. Good luck.
You know who’s our primary representative right now? Caroline Kennedy. You know how she got the job? 60 Minutes – she went to the White House. She said “I’d love to have a job. I have nothing to do.” They said, “How would you like to be the Ambassador to Japan?” She goes, “Really?”
And Abe from Japan, who’s a killer, he’s great. He’s already knocking the hell out of the yen, by the way, which makes it even more impossible for us to compete. And he’s wining and dining her, and I watch it all the time – wining and dining and just doing a number on our country.
A friend of mine is a great excavator. That’s what he does. He digs foundations. He digs lots of dirt – Earth. But he’s a great excavator. Big. And he always bought Caterpillar.
And he calls me up recently and he goes, “I’m a little depressed.” “Why?” “I just put in a big order for machinery, for excavating equipment.” I said, “Oh, that’s good. Did you buy Caterpillar?” “No, I bought Komatsu.” I said, “You bought Komatsu?” It’s fine. I mean, it’s a well-known brand. I said, “You bought Komatsu. Why?” He said, “Because Japan has so devalued the yen” – brilliant, smart, these are smart people – “that it made it impossible.”
…So he ordered Komatsu instead of Caterpillar. This is happening all over the place.

Today, in the Wall Street Journal, big story – Ford going to build tremendous plants all over the place overseas.
Ford, by the way, speaking of Mexico. Again, I respect them. I wish we had smart people. Ford is building a $2.5 billion plant. Whoever heard of this? $2.5 billion in Mexico!
…So, I’m saying to myself, “That’s not good”.
And in addition to that in Tennessee, a big plant – $1.2 billion – was going to be built in Tennessee. Wall Street Journal. And all of a sudden at the last moment they decide to go to Mexico. It’s going to be build down in Mexico by a big German car company.
And Tennessee is great and the people were good. They all thought they had it, and at the last moment, it goes to Mexico.
So I said to myself, “Wow, $2.5 billion. And they’re going to make cars and trucks and parts, and they’re going to send them into the United States, no tax, no nothing.”
Now, I told you, I went to the Wharton School of Finance. I was like – I’m like a really smart person. My uncle, Dr. John Trump, was at MIT – one of the smartest people. Great engineer. Great, like you know, smart. Right? For many years he was at MIT.
And I’m saying to myself, “Where does this help us for Ford to build a plant in Mexico and then sell – without tax, no tax?”
All that means is one thing – that we don’t build a plant in the United States, whether it’s in Phoenix or anywhere, because it’s being built in Mexico.
…So I said to myself, “Okay, Jeb Bush is President and he knows this is the wrong thing.”
Right now, we have Obama. He won’t call. He doesn’t even call to get our hostages back from Iran. Here we are in the middle of a deal and he doesn’t call about that. One sentence – I’d say, “Before we start, we’ve got to get those people back. Used to be three, now it’s four. Get those people back.” They’d be back the next hour.
We need the right messenger. The Iran deal is a disaster. The Iran deal is a disaster. They are begging. Our chief negotiator at 73 is in a bicycle race. He falls and breaks his leg. This is the mentality we have.
So I said, “What would Jeb Bush do?”
You’re right. Benghazi. Another Benghazi. To hear our politicians – John McCain – two days – “Oh, Benghazi!” You don’t hear about it anymore. Hillary Clinton with the emails – “Oh the emails!” – two days.
I’m more disappointed in the Republicans in many ways. They talk and talk and talk.
So, Jeb Bush, let’s say he’s President – ay, ay, ay – so let’s say Jeb Bush is President. He knows it’s no good to have a $2.5 billion plant built right near our country. How does it help us, right?
So here’s what happens. He knows it’s no good. He’ll have a little pressure. Don’t let the plant be built. And he might even say, “Don’t let the plant be built.” Might even call the head of Ford. “The plant’s not going to be built.”
And then the next day, he’ll be called by special interests that supported him, his lobbyists who push him around like a piece of candy, or his donors who have stock in Ford. And they’ll say, “You can’t do that. I helped you. You can’t hurt them. You just can’t do it.”
He folds in about two seconds.

So let me say Trump is President. Let me say Trump. So I don’t need anybody’s money. Actually, people are setting up PACs all over the place. I don’t care. If they want to give it to me, I’ll take it. Okay?
But I don’t need money. I don’t want money. So I’m doing my own. You’ll see that on Thursday or whatever the hell day I file. You’ll see I did really well. Much better than anyone ever thought. Just the opposite.
So here’s the story. So Trump is President. So I get a call from the head of Ford and I’ll say, “You got to build in the United States. Sorry.” He’ll say, “But Mr. President, really – we don’t want – “ I’ll say, “Here’s the story. Number one, congratulations on your new plant in Mexico. And number two, we’re going to charge you 35% for every car, truck, and part you send over.”
And here’s what would happen – here’s what would happen. Now, this isn’t like 99% sure. This is 100%. In fact, you know the negotiators – the killers that I told you about – these bad people? I wouldn’t even bother calling them because this is too easy. I can just do this like, you know, with a couple of phones.
So here’s what would happen with Trump. I will get some calls. He will say “Mr. President, this is terrible. Please! Please!”
“Sorry, can’t do anything. Sorry, I don’t care. I want you to build here. I want jobs in the United States.”
So, they would go and they’d call up the lobbyists…Hey, I hire lobbyists. I have lobbyists all over the place. They’re great. I want something – go do this. I know the system better than anybody.
I’m a donor. Somebody said, “Oh, you gave to the Democrats.” Of course, I give to them. I give to everybody. I want to get everything done. Everybody loves me. Everybody loves – I give to everybody.
Now, in a lot of ways, that’s very bad because you know what? That’s bad for the country. You know it’s bad. But that’s the way it works.
But I give to everybody; they all love me. They don’t love me so much anymore by the way, I have to tell you.
But here’s what happens. He’ll call. I’d say he folds sometimes prior to 5 p.m. in the evening. But he could be tough and he may last ’till 12 p.m. the following day.
And he’ll say “Please” and five guys will call me that are friends of mine and, you know, who I couldn’t care less. I’d say, “No, you don’t understand. I want that plant built in the United States. I want jobs in the United States.”
Now, this is just one of many deals. And here’s what happens. I wold probably get a call the first day but maybe the second day because they’re tough negotiators. And he’ll say, “Mr. President, would you reconsider?” I’d say “No.” He’ll say, “Mr. President, we’ve decided to build the plant in Phoenix.” Okay?
It’s so simple. It’s so simple. We have totally incompetent people. Now, some people say they’re bad people. I don’t think they’re that smart to be bad people.
Honestly, I mean, a lot of people get angry when I say I don’t think they’re bad; I think they’re stupid; I think they’re incompetent.
So we’ve got to take our country back.
We’ve got to get rid of Obamacare. We’ve got to repeal it and replace it with something good.
And we have to take care – and I know this doesn’t sound very conservative – we’ve got to take care of everybody, not just the people up here. We’ve got to take care of everybody. Okay? Get used to it, conservatives. I love you, conservatives. Get used to it. Let’s take care of everybody, please?
And by the way, Obamacare doesn’t. And if you look at the premiums, the premiums are going through the roof. The deductibles – frankly, you have to get hit with a Komatsu tractor in order to use them, they’re so high.
We can do it. You get rid of state lines. You put it out. You’ll have great care for much less money. The country will spend much less, and we will take care of those people that can’t do it. We have to, we have to, we have to!
We have to build up our military. I’m in the real estate business, as many of you have heard. You’ll see that in a couple of days, by the way. I’m in the real estate business and all the time I get listings of bases for sale – a naval, an army base, a marine. There are all these bases. I said “How many bases are there?” All the time I’m getting these listings for bases.
I said, “What are we doing?” We are hated throughout the world. China is building in the South China Sea islands. We can’t do that because we would not be able to get an environmental impact statement. Can you believe? We’d go through 25 years of being sued by the environmentalist.

And by the way, I’d hate to say this. I’ve been given many, many environmental awards. I get a lot of environmental awards. But we have to take back the heart of our country.
We have to do something special. We have to bring back – and let me tell you, in bringing back our military, in bringing back our military, we have to do something else. We have to take care of our veterans because our veterans are treated like their third-class citizens and they are the greatest.
Now, if you remember a few days ago, Bush was asked the simplest question “Was Iraq a good thing or a bad thing?” He couldn’t give an answer. Took him five days before he said it was bad.
Now, think of this. Think of this. Five days. How can you have a guy like that negotiating for you? Five days it took him and finally he said it was bad. Okay? He could have done it in the first three seconds. But it took him five days.
And if you think about it, we spent $2 trillion, lost thousands of lives – thousands. We have wounded warriors who I love all over the place. All over. Amazing, I mean, amazing people. So we have wounded warriors all over. We got nothing.
And today, Iraq is meeting with Iran to do some kind of merger.
So in 2004, in Reuters – anyone from Reuters back there? I’m sure they are. There’s an article in July of 2004: “Trump said don’t invade Iraq”.
Now, I am more for the military and I am the most militaristic person in this room. I would have a military that’s so strong that we would never have to use it because people would say “No way we’re messing with them. No way we’re messing with them.”
And I’d get along with Putin and I’d get along with China.
You know, China – largest bank in the world is in China. They’re my tenant. I just renewed their lease. Who speaks worse about China than me? No, I do it out of respect. But China, they just renewed their lease. “We would never move to a build other than your building.” They love it. But it’s called respect. It’s called respect. They respect smart things, smart people, smart deals. They have no respect for our country.
So with Bush, if you people go with Bush, you’re going to lose.

I’ll tell you one other thing and we’re going to wrap it up now, but I’ll tell you something. And this will be surprising to a lot of people.
Thousands and thousands of people work for me. Tens of thousands. I’ve give tens of thousands – I’ve taken care of education, for families. I’ve taken care of health care at the highest level. I didn’t even have to worry about Obamacare because my people do better. My people got lucky but I got lucky too – they’re great people.
But ISIS will be in such trouble. Oh. ISIS. ISIS, believe me, they will be in such trouble.
You know the problem – have to say this. So we’re fighting wars and we’re backing all these stupid people that – honestly, I don’t say they’re stupid. They don’t care. Like the Iraqis. They don’t – they have no love for the country.
The leadership – there is no leadership but let’s assume there is – they’re all thieves. They’re all terrible people. 100% corrupt.
So we send to one of our so-called allies 2,300 Humvees. Now, think of it. Normally, you’d send like three. How many are here? We send three.
They’re armor-plated Humvees. You can imagine what they cost. They don’t even report because it’s probably so high that it’s another scandal like the $500 billion website for Obamacare, which never worked and still doesn’t work.
So we send 2,300 Humvees. One bullet is fired in the air, and the people we gave the Humvees to flee and the enemy takes them over. And they’re better than the ones that our boys and women have. Because they were the best, they’re gone in one day.
Remember Yemen, how we had the victory? The big victory? It turned out to be a false victory because a few months later it was gone.
If you think that those people – if you think that they want Yemen, take a look at a map with that long beautiful border along Saudi Arabia. They want the oil.
Do you remember what I said – and I get a lot of credit for this. They said, “He’s the one guy” – and I’m a very militaristic guy – “but he’s the one guy that said don’t do Iraq because you’ll destabilize it and then Iran will take over and then somebody else worse than than Saddam Hussein will take over the rest.
ISIS – hey, Saddam Hussein was never as bad as these people. These people are brutal. They’re chopping off everybody’s heads, especially if you happen to be Christian. They chop off your head. They dunk people with a cage. Did you see that? They dunk them and drown them.
These people make Saddam Hussein look like a choir boy.

Okay? And I said this in 2004.
Okay, now Bush goes in and he makes a mistake. And then Obama – frankly, we might as well have stayed there – but he made a mistake too.
And I said, “Keep the oil.” Do you remember that? And everyone said, “You can’t keep the oil. This is a sovereign country. You can’t keep the oil.”
I said, “Keep the oil. We’re in there now. You blew it. You shouldn’t have gone in.”
And every other candidate is fleeing. They’re all trying to say, “Well, they didn’t know. There was intelligence that said this.”
They all said “Do it.” I’m the only one that said no.
I’m the only one that said “No.” “Keep the oil,” I said. I’ve been saying this for two, three years. “Don’t leave. Keep the oil. Because if you don’t get it, Iran will get it or somebody else is going to get it.”
…Iran is taking it and ISIS has it. And ISIS now is building a hotel in Iraq. They’re competing with me. Can you believe it? They’re renovating this building; they’re building a hotel. They’re wealthy. They have the oil.
And I said, “Keep it.” And great criticism. “Trump says keep the oil. Well, that’s a sovereign country. Isn’t it a horrible thing to say?”
These are stupid people we have leading us.
So ISIS, believe me, I would take them out so fast, it would be – have to do it, have to do it.
See, I think they overplayed their hand. I actually think they made a big mistake.
When they started, like you take James Foley. So great. Such a great guy. I got to know his parents…I met the parents; they’re very interesting…
They did the beheading and then they’ve done other – I said, “You know, they’re making a big mistake, ISIS, because if they wouldn’t have done and if they wouldn’t keep doing, we wouldn’t have cared. We could have been gone. But you can’t, not when you see what they’re doing, you can’t.”
Had they not done those things, the level of violence – we’re like living in Medieval times. You know, when you hear of Medieval time, you always think we were all civilized. It’s a jungle. It’s horrible out there.
But when they started doing the beheadings, they really – I think they made a mistake but not with Obama because he’s weak and he’s ineffective and he’s not respected. Not respected.
So here’s the problem. Here’s the kind of deals we make:
James Foley is dead. Great guy. Amazing guy. Amazing parents.
We have Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor.
So we negotiate for Sergeant Bergdahl, a no-good traitor. Six people were killed trying to find him. Six young in this case men went out to try to get him; six of them never came back. Six people died and we have Sergeant Bergdahl.
And here’s our deal. This is just like the stupid deal that we’re making with Iran on nuclear. This is just like everything else we do – the deals we make with China, the deals we make with Mexico. We don’t know what we’re doing.
So we get Bergdahl, a no-good traitor. Frankly, I’d re-negotiate deals every once in a while. Not too often but I’d send him back, and if they don’t want him, send him back anyways. I want to re-negotiate that.
They get five killers that are right now back on the battlefield, trying to kill everybody, including the people in this room. And these were the five people that they most wanted.
So I call Obama the five-for-one President. Who would make that deal? Now, I don’t think it’s because he’s a bad person…Who would make a deal like this?
But these are the same deals that we make with all of these countries.

When I look at Japan, I just go over from Los Angeles. We had a tremendous crowd there too. We had a tremendous crowd. And we had a big one in Las Vegas this morning.
But when I look at these massive boats, I’ve never seen boats like this – the biggest boats with cars coming from Japan. And then we can’t sell corn. We can’t sell beef. It’s peanuts. We can’t sell beef.
So we do about 20% to their 100%.
So I said it in an idea on the way over. I said, “Tell Japan that’s okay. Everything’s fine. We’re going to cut your orders down to 20%. Let it match.” Let it match. Simple deal. Simple deal.
And I had another idea that’s also very simple. When Mexico – and you remember when Fidel Castro took over, the opened his prisons and he sent everybody over to the United States and we accepted them and it was hell. We didn’t send them back. We accepted them.
In a much, much, much more sophisticated way, Mexico is doing that to us because why would they want to have a prisoner like these two horrible people that hurt so badly – destroyed – but hurt so badly the Shaw family and Kate’s family. Why would they want to have them in jail for 40 years, paying for it?
So I had an idea…The one with Kate came over five times. In my opinion, he was pushed out by Mexico. They don’t want him. They don’t want to take care of him. Why would they want to take care of him?
And believe me, Univision, which I’m suing by the way for $500 million because they broke the contract, but Univision is doing the work of the Mexican government.
And I don’t blame them actually. I respect Mexico. I don’t blame the Mexican government. I just wish our people were smart.
Like they’re really smart doing that. They’re sending them to us and we’re either putting them in jails or letting them go free, which is even worse.
But we have to do something. So, I have an idea. I said every time an illegal comes to this country through the border because Mexico was pushing them over, remember that. And by the way, unbelievable people are coming. A lot of people that are illegal are great people.
Just let’s get it straight – they don’t want to give it straight because the press are liars. They’re terrible people. They’re terrible people. Terrible. Not all of them but many of them.
So here’s an idea. So, Mexico is sending them. And by the way, they’re coming from all over the world including the Middle East. Why not? Come on in. We’re stupid. We’ll take care of you. We’ll pay. Get sick, we’ll take care of your hospitalization. What kind of a plan do you want?
So I had an idea. I think it’s good. Every time Mexico really intelligently sends people over, we charge Mexico $100,000 for every person they send over.
Now, they make so much money that that’s peanuts. It’s not a lot. Could have made it much higher but I’m nice. I’m in a good mood today.
We charge Mexico $100,000 for every person. You’ll see that it’ll start to stop because that starts to add up. It starts to add up.
We have to secure our borders. We have to do something to take back our country.
I mean, don’t kid yourself folks, what took place today, even by the dishonest press, what took place today is being seen all over the world. Look at all those cameras back there. This is being seen all over the world. People know.
You know, it’s a term I haven’t heard for years but I was thinking about it…It’s a term that I haven’t heard for years but I really think it applies now more than maybe ever before and that’s the term “the silent majority”. Have you all heard that?
You don’t hear it. When people start cutting up their credit cards at Macy’s and won’t go to Macy’s anymore, when all of these things – and that’s a big story but nobody wants to write it. That’s fine. I don’t care about me.
But when you see the kind of power that the silent majority has and the silent majority is a problem. They want to go out. They want to lead a good life. They want to work hard. They want to have their family. They don’t want to be involved in coming here and waiting on a line for hours and hours and coming in and listening to Trump.
But the silent majority is back, and we’re going to take the country back. And we are going to make America great again!
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you!

Thank you very much. Thank you. It’s a great honor to be here. Thank you…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, it’s just – it’s going to be very exciting for the kids and I know that the kids are going to go up. We have quite a few children who are going to take rides today. So, where are the children? Get them over here. That’s great.
I love children. I love Iowa. Great place. I’ve really developed a relationship with it, and it’s an amazing place.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I’ve been doing it. You know, I’ve been here many times, as you know. And we have a great staff with the whole place. I mean, Chuck and everybody. So I’ve really been doing it.
And actually the venues have gotten larger and larger because we’ve really gotten some tremendous crowds. We’re doing record-breaking crowds.
And I’m so honored when I saw the recent polls with Iowa, leading by a lot.
But we have actually – and we started with the smaller venues and we’ve gotten bigger and bigger. The crowds have gotten to be enormous actually.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I would still do that if it was appropriate.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I love my kids. Come here, kids. Does anybody want to take a ride? Looks nice, right? …[Inaudible] They’re going to have a great time. It’s a great experience.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I do. I have jury duty. Can you believe this? I look forward to it, actually.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I have no expectation. I just hope they’re innocent. Whoever it is, I hope they’re innocent.
Question:
[Inaudible]…on Hillary Clinton’s email
Donald Trump:
Well, she’s got a lot of problems with the email situation. It’s a big problem.
If you look at Gen. Petraeus, he had just a tiny fraction of what she’s got going and they destroyed his life virtually.
So I think she’s got some very big problems. I wish her luck but I think she’s got some big problems.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…It would look that way to me. I don’t know. I always say you’re innocent until proven guilty. But certainly it would look that way. It looks very serious as far as Hillary’s concerned.
I hope that’s not what happens to her but certainly the facts aren’t looking for her right now.
And if you look at Gen. Petraeus, what he went through on a much lesser level, is I think it’s going to be very tough for her.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t even want to talk about that question. That’s a very serious question. And hopefully, you would never have to use a nuclear weapon. Hopefully.
But we have to be prepared. Look, the world hates us, probably never like this before. And we have to build up our military. We have to take care of our vets. And we have to have the finest armament. We have to have the finest military and equipment anywhere in the world by a factor of 10.
We have to be protected. We have to be so tough and so strong and so smart that nobody will ever mess with us.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’d say hello.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we’ve done so well because people hear my message. We’re being ripped off by everybody in the world whether it’s China, or Japan, Mexico – both at the border and in trade in the case of Mexico.
Mexico is sort of becoming the new China in terms of trade.
So many companies – just yesterday I read where Nabisco – Nabisco is moving to Mexico. I mean, give me a break.
So we have to reverse that. We need jobs in our country. We don’t have to worry about other countries. We’re going to take jobs back from China, Japan. We’re going to make our country great again. And that to me is going to be the challenge.
And we’re going to do it and it’s not going to be that difficult.
I spoke with Carl Icahn. He’s a friend of mine. He’s a great negotiator. He will help us.
All of the best negotiators – we have the best business people in the world in this country. They’ll all help us.
And believe me, when I get the right people negotiating with the right countries, we will come out on top every single time.
And that’s what we need.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, Jeb Bush is a puppet to his donors. There’s no question about it. He’s got lobbyists. I know that.
He’s got lobbyists and you know he made statements over the last couple of days that are incredible trying to justify the war in Iraq. Can’t be justified.
And then he said “skin in the game”. I don’t know if you saw his recent statement. He said the United States has to prove to Iraq that we have skin in the game.
We’ve spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who I love all over the place, and he said we have to prove that we have skin in the game.
I think it maybe one of the dumbest statements I’ve ever heard. Skin in the game. We don’t have to prove anything.
First of all, the Iraqi officials are a bunch of crooks, if there’s even an Iraq which I don’t think there is. Iran is taking over Iraq. It was one of the dumbest things ever.
And I think what happened because I understand psychology, I think his brother probably said “Hey, you’re killing me.” That was his war and he looks very bad. So Jeb Bush tried to push back.
But when he said we have to prove to Iraq that we have skin in the game and we’ve lost all of those lives and all of that money, I think he should apologize to the families of the people.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I was one of the greats. But now I’m on the different side. I know how the system works better than anybody.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Many of the people that gave to Jeb and to Hillary and to everybody else, they’re friends of mine or enemies of mine but they’re people I know.
These are not people that are doing it because they like the color of his hair, believe me. These are highly sophisticated killers. And when they give $5 million or $2 million or $1 million to Jeb, they have him just like a puppet. He’ll do whatever they want. He’s their puppet. Believe me.
And with me, I had yesterday a lobbyist called me up. It’s a friend of mine. Good guy. Smart as hell. He’s – for his client, I don’t blame him. He said, “Donald, I want to put $5 million into your campaign.” I said, “I don’t need it. I don’t want it.” He said, “No, no, I want to put $5 million in.” I said, “I don’t want it because when you come back to me in two years and you want help for a company you’re representing or a country that you’re representing, I’m going to do the right thing for the people of the United States and I don’t want to have to insult you. So honestly, I appreciate it. I don’t want your $5 million.”
I’m turning down so much money. But if he put it up, I’d feel obligated because I’m a loyal person just like Jeb Bush.
Jeb Bush and all of them. I’m not just talking about Jeb Bush. Hillary too.
Believe me. Nobody played the game better than I did. I know the game from the other side and that’s the way it works.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Nobody else will do the job that I will do. I will bring back jobs. I will strengthen our military. I’ll take care of our vets. I’ll get rid of Obamacare, which is by the way a catastrophe. Look at what’s happening with your – no, look what’s happening. Look what’s happening. The cost of your insurance is going through the roof. Look what’s happening. It’s terrible.
I will take care of people.
And I will be better to women. It’s another thing. I heard with Jeb – women’s health issues he didn’t want to fund. Then he goes back two, three hours later and he said oh he misspoke. He misspoke?
I will be so great to women. I cherish women, and the women haven’t been take care of properly.
When I hear somebody like Jeb Bush talking about we’re not going to fund, then he comes back because you know his pollsters said “You made a mistake. You have to go back and take it back.”
But he doesn’t mean it from the heart.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I just put out – in fact, it will come out tomorrow on Meet The Press actually – I just put out a policy on immigration, and I think it’s very comprehensive.
So we’re going to start – tax policy, which I happen to be very good at. I mean, who knows the system better than me? I’m putting out a tax policy paper over the next two weeks.
So we’re putting them out one by one.
And I think that you will see that it’s going to be very important.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think the press is more eager to see it than the voters, to be honest. I think the voters like me. They understand me. They know I’m going to do the job.
And you know, when you put out policy like a 14-point plan, a lot of times in the first hour of negotiation that 14-point plan goes astray but you may end up with a better deal. That’s the way it works. I mean, that’s the way really life works.
When I do a deal, I don’t say, “Oh, here’s 14-points plan.” I go out and do it. I don’t sit down and talk about 14 points.
But I know the press wants it. I don’t think the people care. I think they trust me. I think they know I’m going to make good deals for them. That’s what it’s all about.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’ll get Congress – I’ve been getting politicians to pass whatever I wanted all my life.
Nobody has more experience. You know, it’s sort of interesting. Nobody has more experience dealing with politicians than I. I’ve been dealing with them all my life, whether it’s big New York City zoning deals, which by the way, are probably tougher than most of the things I’ll be dealing with with foreign countries.
I mean, I built a city on the Westside of Manhattan. You talk about getting zoning. Getting zoned for Trump Tower – 68 stories on 57th and Fifth. Let me tell you, I’ve been dealing with politicians all my life. They’re fine. They’re wonderful. They’re all talk. They’re no action. They’re selling this country down the tubes, and they’re easy to deal with. Believe me.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I don’t do that because that paper was in my opinion not relevant to me. Just not relevant to me. And I noticed a number of other people aren’t speaking there.
You know, the paper’s not relevant.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Yes, I’m taking questions right now. Yeah. Am I going to take questions? She just asked am I going to take questions from reporters. What am I doing? Am I taking questions from reporters? They’ll tell you I’m taking questions.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
By the way, unlike Hillary, this is unlike Hillary. Do we agree?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I hadn’t heard that. Well, I guess that’s a compliment in many ways.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
You’re going to love me in terms of immigration and illegal immigration.
We’re building a wall. It’s going to be a wall that’s not – nobody’s going through my wall. Trump builds walls. I build walls.
We’re building a wall. It’s going to be strong. It’s going to be solid. It’s going to be policed.
You know, somebody said they can tunnel under. Well, that’s true. But with x-ray equipment, they can’t. All you have to do is fly a drone over it. They can see that immediately.
So, nobody can go under it. Nobody’s going over it.
And you know what? We’re going to have a big door for people to come in legally. We’re going to have a big, beautiful door for people to come in legally. I want people to come into the country, but they have to come in legally.
So you’ll be very happy with me.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think even better. Because foreign leaders, I believe I’ll get – I’ve had great relationships over the years and you can see that. I’ve had great relationships with people over the years. I think even better.
I’m doing well. I’m leading in every poll. The little ones. The big ones. I’m leading. So importantly to me I’m leading in Iowa.
Because when people look at Scott Walker, his state has a $2.2 billion deficit. He thought – you know, he was telling people – his growth is terrible in terms of the state, and there’s tremendous dissention all over the state. But they said they were going to have a big surplus of $1 billion. Well, the $1 billion surplus is a $2.2 billion deficit. And nobody was willing to say it but me. And I didn’t want to say it. I would not have said it until he attacked me. Then I said, “Thank you very much” then I said it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’ll get along great with foreign leaders. I get along great with them right now. I’m all over the world. I’m building in China. I’m building all over the world. I get along great.
Why, do you think they’re getting along good right now? Putin can’t stand Obama. Nobody – who likes Obama? I’m talking worldwide. He’s not getting along with anybody.
And I’ve said it. Hillary Clinton was the single worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. The world collapsed around us while she was Secretary of State.
Now, in my opinion, Kerry might be worse because he’s making a deal with Iran that is so bad and so dangerous and so incompetent and stupid that it will have grave consequences – grave consequences.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, you’re going to have to be very forceful action. Very, very forceful action.
You cannot let Iran – let me just tell you this – nor can Israel.
Israel was sold out by Kerry and Obama. You cannot let Iran have a nuclear weapon. You can’t have it. When they march down the streets saying “Death to Israel”, “Death to the United States”. You can’t let it happen. It will not happen. Believe me, it will not happen here.
Question:
[Inaudible]…on Trump’s campaign budget
Donald Trump:
It’s irrelevant. Well, you saw I make $400 million a year. So what difference does it make?
What I want to do is I want to make the country great. That’s all I want to do. That’s much more important.
My businesses have been so successful. My children are my executives who will run that easily. I won’t even think about – I won’t even care about it.
My sole focus will be taking that brain that built a great business with some of the great assets of the world. I have some of the great assets – Turnberry in Scotland, Doral in Miami – I have some of the greatest assets in the world. Best locations in Manhattan. Trump Tower – 57th and Fifth. That’s what I do.
That whole – whatever it is, whatever kind of a brain that is will be used to making our country rich again. Trade deals – great trade deals. Making our country rich.
And then making it great. We can’t make it great unless we make it rich.
We have to bring back the money. We’re a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion.
So, my whole focus will be this country and making it great.
Question:
[Inaudible]…on spending $1 billion on the election
Donald Trump:
I would do that, yeah, if I had to.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Yes, I do. I have the exceptions and I’ve been open about that.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t think I’ve made mistakes. I mean, every time somebody says I made a mistake, they do the polls and my number goes up. So I guess I haven’t made any mistakes.
Look, when I said Mexico is sending, I was talking about illegal immigration. The people understood it even though the press didn’t want them to. My numbers went up.
When I talked about John McCain, I was saying how bad he’s treated the veterans because the veterans are treated badly. Then they do a poll. Who do you like better – to the veterans – John McCain or Trump? And I swamped him in the poll. The veterans like me better because they know I’ll take care of them. He hasn’t taken – after 30 years, he hasn’t taken care of them.
And this last thing with Fox. I mean, I love Roger Ailes. But all you have to do is ask Roger Ailes “Who won?”
So I don’t think I made any mistakes. I’m sure I will at some point. But so far, you would have to say “Has it worked out badly?” Right?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That one I haven’t heard…That won’t happen. She’s fantastic though.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m going to do a lot of things. Almost everything. You want to know what things am I going to do different for this country? Almost everything because that’s what has to happen.
Everything we do is wrong. The military – we’re not taking care of the military. Not taking care of our vets. We’re not taking care of our country. We’re not taking care of our finances. We’re not taking care of our trade deals.
When was the last time you saw this country have a victory? We don’t have victories. We don’t have victories against China in trade.
China just devalued their currency. That’s the sucking sound. You know what that is? That means jobs and money coming out of our country.
What they did with that devaluation – the biggest devaluation they’ve had in two decades. They’re killing us.
They won’t be doing it when I’m watching. And I think our people have no idea what’s happening…
Wow. Wow, wow, wow! Unbelievable! Unbelievable!
Thank you.
Oh, that’s so beautiful. You know, now I know how the great Billy Graham felt because this is the same feeling. We love Billy Graham. We love Billy Graham.
You know, this all started, we had a hotel and we were going to have 250 or 300 people. And the hotel was great. They called and said, “Something’s happening here. We can’t hold this. This is crazy, what’s going on.”
And then we went to the convention center and they could have 10,000 people and we’re all set and we’re excited. And the next day they said, “Too many people. We can’t put them in.”
So we came here. We came here.
You know, today if you noticed, we have a stock market not doing so well. We have a country not doing so well. We’ve been saying it for a long time.
We have politicians other than the few politicians that are with us tonight – well, exclude them. But we have politicians that don’t have a clue. They’re all talk; they’re no action.
What’s happening to this country is disgraceful.
And you know, when I announced I was running for President, I brought up the subject of illegal immigration.
And I took a lot of heat – that, I can tell you.
Rush Limbaugh actually said incoming – “He got more incoming than anybody I’ve ever seen.”
And two weeks later, everybody was apologizing to me. They saw that I was right. Between what happened in San Francisco to incredible Kate and her family is such an incredible family, Jamiel [Shaw], and so many people have been so badly hurt.
The other day in California last week, a woman 66-years-old, a veteran, was killed – raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed by an illegal immigrant.
We have to do it. We have to do something. We have to do something.
…You know, if it rains, I’ll take off my hat and I’ll prove once and for all that it’s mine, okay?
…The people that built this country. That’s what we have here. I mean, the people that built the country. Great people.
So we’ll start with a little talk on the illegal immigration – what’s going on.
We’re going to stop it. We’re going to build a wall and it’s going to be.
You know, it’s amazing. The politicians 10 years ago, 15 years ago, they all wanted a wall. But it never went. It never happened. Because somebody didn’t want it. Probably a lobbyist.
You know, all these guys like Bush and like Hillary Clinton, they’re all taken care of – I don’t know if you know – it’s true.
No, but when Hillary has $60 million and when Jeb Bush who’s totally in favor of Common Core, weak on immigration – right? Very weak on immigration. Wants to let people come in. Although now, he is using anchor baby.
You know, he put out a memo – “You cannot use anchor baby.” Now, because I used it, he’s using it. Politicians.
But when they have – in his case, $114 million – in Hillary’s case, she’s got $60 million.
Now, I don’t know that she’s going to make it to the game. What do you think? I’m not sure that she’s making it to the game.
Some bad things came out today. You know, those classified – you know the word classified.
You know, they’ve destroyed Gen. Petraeus over less and nothing seems to be happening here.
So it will be very interesting to see what happens ultimately.
But, we have right now and I just got these numbers today. I said “What are they?” 7.5% of all of the births in this country are illegal immigrants. Okay?
Can’t afford it. And they’re supposed to stay.
Now, I turned out to be right. The 14th Amendment. You know, I had these guys – “You can’t change the 14th Amendment. It will take so long.” On that I agree.
But you know what? An act of Congress – the 14th Amendment – I was right on it. You can do something with it and you can do something fast. You can do something fast.
So we have 300,000 babies a year. 300,000 that you have to take care of. We all have to take care of.
And you know, in the case of other countries including Mexico, they don’t do that. It doesn’t work that way.
You don’t walk over the border for one day and all of a sudden we have another American citizen. It doesn’t work that way.
Mexico doesn’t do it. Other places don’t do it. Very few places do it.
We’re the only place just about that’s stupid enough to do it.
So, I decided to run – I’ve gotten an amazing reception. I have to say, has this been crazy?
I mean, it’s been wild. I’m a non-politician. The other day, I served jury duty. Right? I told you – they had “occupation”. I refused to put down “politician”.
But I will say this: We have a great politician here. We have a man here who really have been – he’s the one person I sought his counsel because he’s been so spot on, he’s so highly respected. Has anybody ever heard of Sen. Jeff Sessions?
…Unbelievable guy.
The American people – these people – want somebody in the presidency who stands up for them, defends their interests and the laws and traditions of this country.
We welcome you here. Thank you for the work you’ve put into the immigration issue. I’m really impressed with your plan. I know it will make a difference.
And this crowd shows a lot of people agree with that.
Congratulations! Welcome and God bless.
So, I go around and I see so many people and I’ve been treated so well by the people.
And you know, we’re leading in every poll. We’re leading in just about every state, including Alabama. Big.
We’re leading in Florida. Could you believe it? We’re leading big in Florida.
And you know, it’s really amazing. I said, “Well Florida, I love Florida.” It’s a great place, right? Right.
But Florida – we have a governor and we have a sitting Senator and I’m killing them. How do you explain that? Obviously they’re not doing a very good job because that shouldn’t be happening.
But we’re winning in Florida, Pennsylvania, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, North Carolina, Texas.
And then, nationally, we’re just absolutely way ahead of everybody else.
In fact, you know, if this were another country, we could maybe call for an expedited election. Right? I would love that. Can we do that? Can we do that? I’d like to have the election tomorrow. I don’t want to wait.
So, the reason that I think we see this receptivity is that I know the game better than anybody. I’ve been on the other side.
You know, I was totally establishment…Was handing…millions of dollars to these characters all the time, right? I was like the fair haired boy. Do I look fair haired?
But I know the game. I mean, I understand it.
And so many people have come up – lobbyists. I said I don’t want money from lobbyists.
But recently, last week, a man comes up who’s a good guy. I know him…I said I don’t want your money. I don’t want your money because I don’t know maybe I’ll rethink it. Should I rethink it? Take it.
You know what I should do? How about this? How about if I take his money but in the end, I screw him and don’t do anything for him. Is that okay? Can I do that?
You know, because I built a great business and I felt sort of stupid. I say I don’t want your money.
Can I take it please? I promise I won’t do anything for him.
I told him, I said, “You know, I don’t want your money because in two years when you come to see me about something I’m not doing it unless it’s good and unless it’s going to make America great again.” Right? Right?
But I’m going to have to rethink it. I think I’m going to rethink that because I think I should take a lot of money – are we allowed to give it to charity or something? I don’t know. Just take it. Just take it.
So what happens is these guys come up and I’m lucky. You know, everybody said he’s never going to run. Okay? You know that. Right?
And my wife actually said, “You know, if you” – she knows me pretty well and she also sees the reaction and for a long time whether it’s Trump – The Art of the Deal, which Obama and Kerry obviously did not read when they did this crazy deal with Iran.
Oh, look, the Art of the Deal. Give me that book. I love that book.
You know, I said the other day and it sort of played pretty well that is my second – help her over here – give me that book. There’s always the Art of the Deal and that’s the real one; that’s the original. That’s when they use real paper right?
You know, I said the other day ‘cause so many people they carry around the Art of the Deal because they’re begging, they’re begging their politicians “Please, please read the Art of the Deal when you negotiate with China and with Japan and with Mexico and with Vietnam and with Saudi Arabia and with everybody.”
You know, right now we have a problem where North Korea’s getting frisky. Right?
Now, recently I ordered 4,000 television sets. I’d like to order them from here. Like the hats made in America. Can you believe it? I was able to find a guy. I had to do that because you know these hats are hot as a pistol. You know that. And they’re made in America.
And I’m going to give you your book. Believe me, I haven’t forgotten about you.
But they’re made in America.
But the other day and now I see today it’s sort of pretty hot on the news that our very dear friend North Korea is acting a little bit rambunctious again.
So, I ordered 4,000 television sets from South Korea, whether it’s Samsung or Sharp or LG or any of them. They’re all made in South Korea. I paid a fortune and they’re wonderful. And they’re wonderful people.
They’re making a fortune.
We don’t – do we have anybody who makes television sets in this country? I almost like don’t think so, right?
So they’re mostly made – other than Sony, which has lost its way, prices are too high – but they’re mostly made in South Korea.
So now I see North Korea is acting up. So I see that we are sending ships and we’re getting our troops ready. We have 28,000 troops over there.
And we’re getting ready just in case…We’re going to fight, we’re going to protect. We get nothing. We get nothing. What do we get? We get nothing.
Saudi Arabia – and I get along great with all of them. They buy apartments from me. They spend $40 million, $50 million. Am I supposed to dislike them? I like them very much.
But you know, Saudi Arabia makes $1 billion a day. A day. That’s – in all fairness, that’s before the oil went down a little bit. But that’s okay. These are minor details.
But, let’s say they were, let’s say they’re making a half a billion [$500 million] a day. That’s not so bad, right?
We get nothing. And they wouldn’t be there without our protection.
Even Germany – Germany’s a power. Who has a Mercedes Benz? Anybody? A lot of people. They’re a power. They pay us nothing.
We defend the whole world.
All you have to do – and we want to be nice.
Somebody said, “Oh, that’s like the mafia defense.” I said, “Don’t worry about it, okay? The mafia’s not so stupid.” All right?
They said, “That’s terrible to ask for money.” No, they said it. They said that’s terrible. “How can you possibly ask for money to defend a country?”
I mean, tell me, tell me, how crazy are we?
Now, we’re sending our ships, we’re sending our everything. We got – I’ll tell you what. Those 28,000 troops that we have right now on the border between North and South Korea. That’s dangerous territory. They’re in harm’s way. They’re in harm’s way. And we get nothing. We get nothing.
Other than they’re a good competitor. I mean, they compete with us. They take our trade. We lose a fortune with them. We lose a fortune with China.
We defend Japan.
You know, we have an agreement with Japan where if somebody attacks Japan, we have to come to their rescue. But if we get attacked, Japan doesn’t have to help us.
Do you think that’s a good deal?
That’s sort of like Sgt. Bergdahl. Has anybody heard of Sgt. Bergdahl? The traitor. No, no, the traitor.
I call President Obama the five-for-one President.
We get Sgt. Bergdahl, a traitor, who by the way six people at least that we know of, six people were killed trying to get this guy back. Six people – they went after him. They wanted to get him back.
So we get Sgt. Bergdahl and they get five people that they desperately wanted for years that are right now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody including us.
How stupid are we? How stupid are we?
And you know, the reason we have crowds – and no matter where I go – the other night, we’re in New Hampshire, we had some – New Hampshire was so incredible. The crowd. You saw it.
You know, every time I go on television it’s got to be live. It’s live. I said, “Oh, can I have a rest please?”
Tonight it’s live on Fox. Who likes Fox? I like Fox. It’s live on CNN. Who likes CNN?
And it’s live on MSNBC.
Well, they’re still working.
But I said, “How come it always has to be live? Why can’t they just cover me like anybody else where they go the next day and they show a little clip?”
Every time I speak, it has to be live. It’s ridiculous. But it’s okay. Right? We have to suffer with it.
But look, the reason I have this really incredible enthusiasm – and I really appreciate you especially with this weather and this heat and everything else – but the reason I have it is because I do know what I’m doing.
And I don’t say that in a braggadocious way. You people are looking for somebody that knows what he’s doing. Whatever it is.
…I said it the other night – my second favorite book of all time – what’s my first favorite book? The Bible. The Bible.
And as much as I love the Art of the Deal, it’s not even close. We’d take the Bible all the way, right?
So, I was saying. So they said I wasn’t going to run. And everybody said, “Oh, he’s never going to run. Never going to run. He’s just having fun. Just a good time. His brand – “ Like I care about my brand. At this point, my brand –
I mean, I lose gutless Macy’s because I said about illegal immigration. They dropped my brand. They’re not supposed to be – they’re gutless. They’re all gutless.
I have to sue Univision. Univision – my poor Miss Universe people – these beautiful women – some are girls – but beautiful women and I get dropped.
Think of it. You have these magnificent women who worked all their life to be in the Miss USA contest and the Miss – and two weeks before the contest, NBC and Univision dropped because they thought my tone was a little bit strong.
And it turned out I was right.
So here’s the good news. I sued them both.
And I mean, in the case of Univision, I sued them for $500 million. I want that money. I want that money.
So I actually put it on the other day – Miss USA – I put it on because it was only fair to the people. And we had it in a small network and it was fun. But who would do that? All because they want to be so politically correct.
They actually called and said, “Oh, we’ll get it back on soon. We’ll get it back on soon.”
You know, in a case of a couple, they said “Trump loses NASCAR”. It was all over the world. A friend of mine called. You know, because I opened with a strong statement, meaning illegal immigration – we’ve got to solve the problem.
So all over. One day it was NASCAR. “Trump loses NASCAR.” I said, I don’t have a deal with NASCAR. It turned out that I lost NASCAR – you know what they did? They rented a ballroom at Trump Doral. Can you believe it? That was my loss. They had a ballroom. And by the way, I kept their deposit and rented it to somebody else.
The next day – I didn’t even know I had a deal with them. It turned out they had in one of my places. They’re out.
The next day “ESPN severs ties with Trump”. It’s all over the world. ESPN – I have friends that called me. He’s a great business. “Oh, it’s too bad about what happened to ESPN.” You know what it was? A golf outing at one of my courses in Los Angeles. Can you believe it? This was my big deal.
And this was all over the world.
I mean, the press. I don’t know. Maybe they didn’t get it. Maybe they don’t get it.
I was very disappointed though with Macy’s. You know, shirts and ties. It’s not a big deal.
But they heard they were going to be three pickets in front of the store and they called “Oh, we’re going to have pickets. We’re going to have pickets.”
I said, “Look, in two hours they’ll be gone. Believe me, they’ll go for lunch. They won’t come back. Don’t worry about it. It’s true.”
But they said, “Oh this is so bad. Can we sever ties?” I said, “I don’t care – sever ties. I don’t wear ties so much any more, you know.”
I didn’t like the ties that much anyway. You know why? Because they were made in China. It always drove me nuts. True. But they were good. They were good.
But I just hate gutless people.
And so the reason that we’re getting this receptivity, which is like this all over the place, is because I filed papers and they said I’m never going to run. Then they said I’m not going to sign the big document, which is a one-page document which basically you’re giving your life away and I signed.
And then they said “Oh, I can’t believe it.” The pundits – you know, they get paid a half a million dollars a year to sit there and make jerks out of themselves, right? Call them pundits. Some are great. Some are really incompetent. I could the ones but they’re starting to get nicer to me so I think I can’t.
…But what happens is they said “He’ll never file his financials. He’ll never file because he’s probably not as rich as people think.”
I said, “Actually, one of the reasons I want to run is because I want to file my financials because they’re so good.” Because it’s true. It’s true.
So I have like about 102 pages or 98 pages of stuff and they have all these boxes “over $50 million”, “over $50 million”. And I filed my financials and they were phenomenal. They were phenomenal. Much better.
And people realized – and it was a net worth – and this is not bragging. I’m going to tell you why. Over $10 billion. That’s good, right? Very little debt. Very little debt.
In fact, to show you how stupid these people – it has a line for income and the income was like I think it’s over $400 million a year. Is that good? My son is here. Look at Eric. He could live on that.
It says a line – “income” and it’s like, you know, varies with different things. But basically over $400 million a year…Is there anybody that would not want to make that much money in one year here?
Well, with it comes responsibility but I will tell you this.
The reason people like what I’m saying is because I want to put that energy – whatever the hell kind of energy it is – I don’t know if it’s screwed up, if it’s good, if it’s genius, if it’s whatever it is – I know how to do things.
And I’m not going to do – I don’t care about – you know, we’re building a great building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite, between, as you know, the White House and the Old Post Office.
You know in real estate business slogan – “Always get the post office because they were there first.” I got the old post office in Washington, D.C. And I got it from the Obama administration. Can you believe that? Now, that’s call dealmaking.
One of the most sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration and I got it. And you know what? They did the right thing because we’re doing a great job and we had a great statement. They wanted to make sure it gets done.
And it will be opening – and here’s a little story. It’s now under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government?
And we just finished Doral and lot of great jobs.
And my son is here, Eric Trump. And Ivanka. Has anybody ever heard of Ivanka? And I’ll let them run it. I’m not going to let them do any big deals. Just relax, Eric. Just relax. Calm it.
But you know what? I won’t care about that company. My whole energy – who cares? We do a building. It doesn’t mean anything. My whole energy, my whole being is going to be to make our country rich and to make our country great again.
And I mean, it’s my primary – it’s my aptitude. I’ve always had an aptitude for making money. Some people would say “That’s nice.” One person said, “Mr. Trump, that’s very crass.” I said, “Why?” “You said you were going to make the country rich. That’s very crass.” I said, “You have to understand in order to make our country great, I have to make it rich again.”
We’re a debtor nation. He agreed.
…So I will devote 1,000%. I couldn’t care less about the Old Post Office. I couldn’t care less about any of our stuff. My kids are very good. They’re going to run it very nicely.
And I just want to make this country so great. And that’s what’s going to happen. And that’s what’s going to happen.
…In Alabama, U.S. Steel – big closure. Or essentially a closure. And I said, “Why? What happened?”
And I went around. And I said, “Anybody work there?” No, I don’t think so. I hope not. But big closure.
And one of the reasons is China is dumping so much steel into the United States and other countries also.
But China – I love that sign. Look at that, huh? Wow. Wow. Oh, that’s true…
So China is dumping tremendous amounts of steel into our country.
The government is subsidizing it. It’s almost like they want us to just die. And they have no respect for us.
And again, like Saudi Arabia, like Japan – I get along with them great.
You know, the largest bank in the world is one of my buildings. They pay me rent. They buy apartments. They spend so much money. Am I going to dislike them? I love them.
The problem is and I say it all the time. Their leaders are really smart. They’re really cunning. They’re really sharp. And we have dummies. Right? We have dummies. We have dummies. We have people that don’t have a clue and I don’t know. You know, some people say they’re bad people. Well, I don’t think they’re bad people. I think they’re incompetent people. A lot of people think they’re bad. I don’t think they’re bad. I think they’re incompetent.
So you look at China and what they’ve done. And you know, last week and I said this and I’ve been saying bubble for a long time. You’ve been hearing it.
Last week, they devalued their currency and we’re having a lot of hard times because of what they did.
And when I hear devaluation of the Chinese currency – you know the word, the sucking action. That’s a sucking like the vacuum cleaner. I hear the sucking action.
Two things happen. Two things get sucked out of us. Our jobs and our money. Now, think of it.
China sells us our product, takes our jobs, takes our base, does our manufacturing for us, and we owe them $1.4 trillion.
That’s like a magic act. I call it the magic act in reverse. We owe them money.
Japan – and Japan is back. They have Abe, who’s the new prime minister. And Abe is really smart. I mean, he’s smart. I met him one time. He’s sharp.
He’s negotiating against Carolyn Kennedy. Carolyn.
And I was watching 60 Minutes – I’ll give you guys a plug – I was watching 60 Minutes and they’re doing a feature on Carolyn Kennedy and she’s very nice. You know why I like her? Because Ivanka Trump likes her. My daughter likes – anybody that my daughter likes, right? Anybody my daughter likes – we love Ivanka.
So, what happens is that they’re doing a feature and they said “How did you become Ambassador to Japan?”
And with Japan, the Ambassador is a very important position because we negotiate. You know, you need somebody sharp. We need a killer. Right? A smart killer, not a dumb killer because there are plenty of dumb killers too.
You need somebody sharp.
So they said “How did you get the Ambassadorship?” She said, “Well” – and this is pretty close. You can check it out. “Well, I don’t know. I wanted a job and I had nothing to do. So I went to the White House and I said, ‘Could I have a job? Do you have anything for me to do?’”
And they said, “How would you like to be Ambassador to Japan?” And she said, “Really?” She said, “I’ll do it.” She couldn’t believe she got it.
And then they showed the rest of the show as her being wined and dined by Abe and all of these killers. Wined and dined. She’s being feted at dinner, at this, and lunches and breakfast. She’ll do anything they want. Anything.
So I have the smartest, toughest, meanest, in many cases, the most horrible human beings on Earth. I know them all. They’re killers. They’re negotiators. Some are nice people. Very few. Some are nice people.
But I will put the meanest, smartest – we have the best in the world. We don’t use them. We use political hacks, diplomats. We use people that don’t have any business ability. We use people that have never done a job.
…You know, like as an example, Carl Icahn, did anyone ever hear of Carl? He’s an unbelievably brilliant tough businessman. So I called him. I had dinner with him two nights ago.
I said, “You know, Carl, I’m doing pretty well. I’m leading every poll.” He said, “You’re doing great.” He can’t believe it either.
And I said, “If I ever get there, I want you to oversee the negotiations with China and Japan.” “I’ll do it. I’ll do it.” He’s like “I’ll do it.”
Remember when I said somebody has blood come out of her eyes with hatred? Right? Well, he had blood coming out of it; he will do it. He is an unbelievable negotiator. An unbelievable negotiator.
And I know others. I know the best. I know the worst. I know the ones that are overrated. I know the ones that you’ve never heard about or read about that are better than all of them.
But Carl’s one of the greats. I mean, he’s very famous. He’s very rich. And he would love to do it. He’d love to give back.
And he knows what’s happening. They’re ripping us.
So they send their stuff over here. And actually, somebody the other day said “What China has done to the United States is the greatest single theft in the history of the world.”
Isn’t is an interesting statement?
We’ve rebuilt China. We’ve rebuilt China.
So you know we have free trade. The problem with free trade is when you have free trade, very important, you need competent leaders. That’s the one problem with free trade.
I like free trade. I’m a free trader. The problem is you need great negotiators, great leaders. We don’t have that.
So we’re getting killed by everybody. I use these three or four countries. We don’t make good deals. Everybody’s killing us.
So we will have unbelievable deals.
A friend of mine is a manufacturer, and he’s trying to do business with China. And what he’s going – and he’s a great manufacturer. Makes great products. Better than what they did. They don’t want him sending his stuff.
And he calls me and he goes, “You know, it’s impossible to do business. I can’t get my product – they’re dumping stuff over here, comes in by the ship load.”
He said, “It’s impossible. I can’t get my product – “
Finally gets a product in there and they charge him a massive tax which they call a tariff because it sounds a little more sophisticated, right? And he calls me. And he goes, “It’s impossible to do business with China.”
Boeing does business with China. And they want all of their intel. They want all of their copyrights. They want everything. Otherwise, we’re not buying planes.
And they’re now building big factories – I don’t blame China. I mean, I respect them. Not angry at them. I’m angry at our leaders for being so stupid. I’m not angry at China.
And Mexico is the same thing.
You know, Mexico is the new China. The other day, Nabisco – Nabisco. Oreos. Right? Oreos. I love Oreos. I’ll never eat them again. Okay? I’ll never eat them again.
No, Nabisco closes a plant. They just announced a couple of days ago in Chicago. And they’re moving the plant to Mexico.
Now, why? Why? Why?
Have you heard? My favorite story is with Ford…
So Ford – great company. They’re building a $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico.
Now, they’re closing up places all over the United States. They’re building this massive factory in Mexico.
So I went to this great school. I was actually – you know, I was totally still am really smart. I went to this great place – the Wharton School of Finance – hardest school to get into. Even then it was hard to get into. The hardest. But I went to this great business school and I get business. And I fully understand. Really good at this stuff.
So they’re building a $2.5 billion plant. They’re going to close up factories in the United States. They’re going to go and build this plant, they’re going to sell cars, they’re going to sell them back to us, they’re going to sell them. Where does that help us? Tell me. Explain. Explain.
There’s no tax. There’s no nothing. There’s no nothing. So we’re closing plants here. They’re building this massive plant in Mexico.
Another plant. Also another big foreign car company. There was a plant being built. It was all set to get started. They were going to announce it in Tennessee. You read about it.
And this was a couple of months ago. Wall Street Journal. All set to get started. All of a sudden, Mexico took it away. And now it’s not going to be built in Tennessee. It’s going to be built in Mexico.
So Ford is building a plant…I give myself this position. And I say “Let’s assume that somebody else becomes President”. Wouldn’t that be horrible? Wouldn’t that be horrible?
So let’s assume somebody else becomes President. Let’s assume a very low energy person, very, very low energy. So low energy that every time you watch him, you fall asleep.
…Yeah, Hillary too.
So let’s say Jeb becomes President…Not good. Not good.
First thing’s that’s going to happen – like I said, your school’s going to hell. People flow over – but forget about that. So let’s say that Jeb doesn’t want this plant build.
So they’re going to call him – the head of Ford – and they’re going to say, “Mr. President, we want to build it.” He’ll say, “Well, we don’t want it built.”
The next day or the next hour, he’s going to get a call from the lobbyists and the special interests and his donors and they’re going to say, “Hey Jeb, we gave you $8 million of your $120 million that you raised. We gave you $8 million. We want that thing done. You can’t do that to our people.”
“Oh, well, okay, I’ll approve it.” It’s going to get done. Okay? The plant will get built and that would be it.
Now, let’s take Trump as President. Okay, is that better?
Here’s the simple question: Who would you rather have negotiating with China, Japan, Mexico, any other? Trump or Bush?
Actually, ah, what a group. What a group.
Well, you know, it’s sort of interesting…CNN does this big report that came out last week that I was leading in the poll. So it’s a poll. And everybody says why don’t I have a pollster. What the hell do I need a pollster? Everyday I wake up there’s another poll. Right?
You know, they pay these guys like $100,000 a month and they can’t function because unless they go and have it vetted with their pollster, they can’t talk.
And I say, “Why do I need a pollster when everyday there’s a new poll and they give like 30 pages? I don’t have to get a pollster. What the hell do I need it?”
But CNN did this very expensive, very well-done poll. It’s only well done because I was leading by a lot…And they had leadership. I was way ahead of everybody. They had actually I was very good in – you know the thing I’ll be great at…and I’ll do very well at it – military. I am the toughest guy.
I will rebuild our military. It will be so strong, so powerful and so great. It will be so powerful and so great that we’ll never have to use it. Nobody’s going to mess with us, folks. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody’s going to mess with us.
So, I look at the various things to do with our country.
And by the way, one of them, boy, we’re going to take care of our vets. Right? Right?
They did a poll but they did a poll on like who’s one of the most popular with the vets? I was the most popular person. They like me. And I love them.
Because you know why? Because for 35 years, these Senators and these – other than Jeff, of course. I take Jeff. But these Senators, these Congressmen, these people in Washington, including Presidents, they have done nothing for the vets. They have done nothing. And we’re going to take care of our vets.
But so they do this poll, and in the poll, I scored really high marks on almost  everything other than – they thought I wasn’t a nice person. They said who’s the nicest and I was pretty low on that part. And I’m a nice person.
But who cares?
A woman came up to me and she said, “I’m not choosing – you’re not nice enough to be President.”
I said, “You know what? This is not going to be an election based on a nice person. It’s going to be based on a competent person. We’re tired of the nice people.”
So, I won on the economy. I won on jobs. I won on leadership by massive numbers. Like massive. You’ve seen it. I won on all these categories.
I said, “Why do we need an election? We don’t need an election. These are such important categories.”
But I have had an amazing experience because from the time I announced almost – other than the first week. That was a rough week. They were hitting me.
But the press, which is by the way largely very dishonest. I have to say this. The political media – I actually think that the political media is less popular than Congress. Can you believe it? And Congress has almost no rating.
And in all fairness, ‘cause look at all those cameras. They’re all live and they’re trying to shut off the camera right now. But you know what? They’re all live. And so many live cameras.
…But I will say this. The media is very dishonest but there is a certain group that are fantastic people and every once in a while I’ll get an honest story and I love it. I cherish those stories. They’re not often. But I cherish those stories.
…They really started treating me much better.
Don’t forget, when I first ran, I said you know it’s amazing. Went to a great school. Excellent student. Smart guy.
My uncle was a professor at MIT who was a smart guy. You know, good smart guy. Good family.
Do we believe in the gene thing? I mean, I do. Right? You know, I do…
But then I went out and built a tremendous fortune and great company. I did the Art of the Deal and many books that were bestsellers. The Art of the Deal is one of the biggest selling – maybe the biggest selling – business book of all time.
I did The Apprentice. We love The Apprentice. Tremendous.
NBC hates me. You know, NBC hates me because they renewed The Apprentice and I said, “Excuse me, I’m not doing it. I’m running for President. I’m going to make the country great again.”
They actually came up to my office and the top people – great people from NBC – and they said, “Please, please”…They said “We had already renewed the show.” They had sold most of the advertising. They renewed the show.
I said I’m going to run and I’m going to make our country great…
I’m hired. You’re hired!
So, I look at the landscape of our country. I look at where we’re going. I look at where we’ve been.
We’ve had a horrible number of years. A horrible number of years.
We can’t beat ISIS. I watched the general the other day on television, who’s just retiring, which is fortunate. “How do you think we’ll do against ISIS?” “Oh, I don’t know. It’s going to be very tough.”
Can you believe this?
General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their graves as you listen to this. They’re spinning in their graves. He talks about a hard time.
And I look at what’s going on with the landscape and I get to meet all of the people that I’ve met over the last period of time and I want to tell you it’s been amazing. It’s been really amazing.
And I want to finish up with a couple of little points.
One of them is the Ford deal. Right?
Israel – I love Israel.
…The bottom line on Ford – I love this story because – so when I get the call, I say, “No, no, no. You’re going to build in the United States.” They’re going to say “No, we don’t want to do that.” I say, “Let me tell you, sir, you’re going to build in the United States.”
And I will be called by people but I will not have any of their money so I don’t care.
And they’re going say – and I’ll call them in and I’ll say, “Listen, here’s the story. You’re building $2.5 billion in Mexico. We’re going to charge you a tremendous little 35% tax.”
35%.
And that tax is going to be for every car and every part and every truck that comes into the United States.
And here’s what’s going to happen – as sure as you’re standing or sitting – they’re going to come back to me the following day. I would say the following afternoon. Let’s say 12…And I don’t need Carl Icahn. This one is too easy. And they’re going to come back and they’re going say, “Mr. President, what you’re doing to us is terrible. We will build in the United States. We will build the plant in the United States.”
100%.
And I’ll say the same thing to Nabisco. It doesn’t help us. It doesn’t help us.
When you look at what’s going where Nabisco is closing and so many places are closing, when you look at the kind of money that these countries are making and I’m naming a few – I mean, so many countries – we don’t have anything left. We’re running on fumes. We’re running on fumes.
There’s nothing here.
When you look at what happens, they’re so much sharper, they’re so much smarter, and we’re not going to have a country left.
We need to have our borders. We need to make great deals.
You know, the man in the back just shouted Israel. How would you like to be Israel right now? They relied on us. They’re a voice of sanity. They’re great people. And we have a deal that is so incompetent, so bad.
Think of the deal. We make a deal. Our chief negotiator goes into a bicycle race at 73 years old. He falls, he breaks his leg. That was the good part of our deal. That was the only thing that happened.
No, think of it. And I told people last week as I told this last week, I swear to you I will never, ever ride a bicycle at least in a race but I won’t ride one anyways.
But we have new thing that just came up in the deal.
We know all about the 24 day period, right?
But the 24 day period – that doesn’t start, that clock doesn’t start ticking for a long time. For a long time.
So that could be forever. So if they’re doing something, believe me, by the time we get there –
But there’s the all time great.
First of all, why aren’t they giving us back our prisoners?
And second, can you believe this? And second of all, the other day it was determined that Iran in a very important section – maybe the most important, right? – is going to do their own policing.
They are going to police and they are going to tell us “We swear we’re not building anything.”
It’s so sad. It’s so sad.
Obamacare – we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
We are going to come up with a plan and there are so many different ways.
You know, you don’t know this because you don’t think of Obama this way. Do you know who the biggest beneficiaries of Obamacare are? The insurance companies. The insurance companies.
Remember I told you special interests and lobbyists – the insurance companies love it.
We can have such great plans if we’d get rid of the artificial lines around every state.
I have a huge company, and when I negotiate, I like get one group. They don’t – you can’t negotiate.
Some of the people that own businesses know what I’m talking about.
The insurance companies are so protected, they’re making a fortune. We’re going to end that. We’re going to make it so competitive.
We’re going to get rid of the artificial barriers. You’re going to get such great plans.
And Obamacare, I mean, you look at what’s happening with your premiums. I mean, look at this. Look at what’s happening. Just take a look at what’s happening to the deductibles. They’re so high, it’s impossible. It’s impossible.
Trade – we’re going to fix it. Health care – we’re going to fix it.
Women’s health issues – we’re going to fix it.
My wife came up to me the other day and she said “It’s really sad because people don’t understand how you cherish women.”
I will protect women. It’s so important to me. So important.
And I heard some of the other candidates – Jeb and some of the others the other day – saying we’re not going to fund various women’s health issues. Can you believe this?
I said, “That’s the end of his election.”
Women, I don’t think, like that too much. Do we agree?
And he said, we’re not going to fund women’s health issues. A few hours later, he came back and he said he misspoke. Oh, okay. He misspoke.
But women’s health issues – so important.
We’re going to end up taking our country. We are going to make it so strong, so powerful, so loved by people again, so loved.
You know, one of the problems that we have and you don’t see it tonight but you see it is the tremendous lack of spirit.
And I actually thought that President Obama – the one thing – he was inexperienced, he never produced a job. Lots of other things. But I actually thought that he would be a great – a really great cheerleader for the country when he was elected. I thought that he would.
And he’s really turned out to be a great divider as opposed to a great unifier. Really had.
And you look at Baltimore, you look at Ferguson, you look at St. Louis last night over the last week, you look at all of the things that are happening. We’re sitting on powder kegs.
There’s no spirit. There’s no jobs. There’s no anything.
We are going to take this country. I am going to be the greatest jobs President that God ever created. I will tell you that. I will tell you.
You are going to be so proud.
You know, I oftentimes say the American dream is dead but I’m going to make it bigger and stronger and more powerful than ever before.
And that’s what’s going to happen. I am going to make this country bigger and stronger and better. And you’re going to love it and you’re going to love your President. And we’re going to turn this place around and you’re going to be so proud.
And you know our whole theme is make America great again. We are going to make America better than it’s ever been and we’re going to love doing it and we’re going to have fun doing it.
And I just want to thank everybody because this has been really, really special. Thank you. Thank you very much!
…I’m going to tell you a story about Nashville. You’re not even going to believe it. But it’s a very personal story. It’s a very special place to me for a very special reason.
But maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. She’s 92 years old. We don’t talk about age but she’s 92. And she looks magnificent. And her name is Beada and she’s become very famous. You know who Beada is, right?
Beada, where are you Beada? Look at her. So beautiful.
So, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. She hasn’t seen anybody that really did it to her. And for the first time in her life she just registered to vote and she’s going to vote for Trump. I think, right?
Thank you, darling. I really appreciate it. You know, she’s become so famous. She’s on television all over the world now.
I have to be nervous even talking to her, you’re so famous. It’s great.
Beada, thank you very much. I really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it.
Because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out there and we’re going to take this country back and we’re going to make this country so great again and so strong again.
…Well, I just want to tell you about Nashville. So, years ago – many years ago – like I hate to say 40 but I won’t say 40 but close to 40, I came to Nashville. Did you ever hear of a company called Genesco? Genesco. Right? So, they were based in Nashville, Tennessee, and they owned the Bonwit Teller department store chain.
And I was a young guy and I came from Brooklyn in Queens, and I wanted to go into Manhattan. And I went into Manhattan and I did the Grand Hyatt Hotel and I did some other things that were good.
But the thing I wanted more than anything was Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th Street, which is called the Tiffany Location right next to Tiffany. And that’s what I wanted. I wanted that piece of property so badly.
I shouldn’t say that because you’re not supposed to want things like that so badly. God will get angry at me, right?
But I wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was Genesco based in Nashville, Tennessee.
And I came in and I came to Nashville, and I met with the heads of Genesco who were really great people actually. And they were having a lot of difficulties. There were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything.
And I convinced them to sell me the land and the building. And I bought the Bonwit Teller store Fifth Avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding Tiffany. I bought all the air rights and then ultimately I bought the air rights from Tiffany and I built Trump Tower. And to this day it’s one of the great buildings of the world and it’s one of the great successes.
And I love country music and I went to the Grand Ole Opry while I was here. And I just had such an incredible experience.
And when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places – you know, when you’re leading in every poll, they sort of want you. When you’re not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they don’t want you at all.
And we’ll talk about the polls in a second.
But I had a lot of choices for this morning, and I guess I could have also gone and played golf like the President does all the time, right? But I decided let’s do this.
And I really chose Nashville because the experience is one of my – it’s not my biggest deal but in terms of a deal it’s so important and it’s been such a great – from the day I built it it was a home run. And it all really took place because of Nashville, Tennessee. So, I really – it’s an honor to be with you folks, I can tell you. Real honor.
So, coming over I heard and I watched television – you know, they have all these cameras back there and they’re live. And I guess we’re live on CNN, we’re live on so many different things. It’s always difficult. You know, when you’re always live, you’ve got to change up your speech. You can’t make the speech over and over…
The other candidates don’t get covered live ever, except for the debate.
So you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. Now they think when the new numbers come out they’ll be even substantially higher than that.
So I would’ve said they would have had a million or two. So I say they have 24 million people. And I say, well now the second debate, which is on CNN – that was on Fox, maybe I should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity. Does that make sense? All to charity. All to charity.
When I said that to the writers at Time Magazine, they were nice enough to put me on the cover with actually a nice story. And I said, you know, and I sort of thought I said it off the record but they put it in Time Magazine. So now – maybe should I ask for charity, maybe a nice Nashville charity and American Cancer Society and AIDS research – so many of this – there’s so many good – Alzheimer’s – you know, there’s so many things going on. Maybe I should ask for a lot of money or I’m not showing up.
You know, it’s interesting. So they’ll get 2 million – a million to 2 million people at the debates. You know, they’ve been doing them for a long time. They don’t do great, especially the early Republican debate. Like you know the expression – it draws flies? That’s what it draws.
So this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. I think it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of cable television.
Naturally I took full credit for it, which in all fairness I should. I should.
So bottom line I think I might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. But I did say is it a little hokey if I do that? Maybe it’s not so nice. So what do you think? Should I do it or not? Maybe not. I don’t know.
Here’s the thing. If I don’t do it, CNN just makes a lot of money. I don’t care about CNN. Honestly. No, they’re going to make a lot of money. They just shut off their camera.
They’re actually very nice.
But they’re going to make a lot of money and, you know, it’s something we should consider. So we’ll all consider it together.
But coming over today, I saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come in and somebody mentioned the term the DREAMERs having to do with children and, you know, the dreams of children. And these are people who come over to the country and they’re DREAMERs.
And I said, “What about our children?” Why can’t our children that are in the country, why can’t they be the dreamers? Nobody ever talks about that. No, no, nobody ever talks about that.
You know, we talk about the DREAMERs, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by the way are treated better than our vets.
You know, our vets are incredible. No, no, the illegal immigrants in many cases…are treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we have – our wounded warriors are – these are the greatest people we have.
And another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter then say, “Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Nashville, it’s wonderful – “ you know, is that I can sort of be very current. Okay? I can be very, very current. I can talk about what’s happening.
This morning on the television, they had a whole story about the Veterans Administration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in. These are our veterans. These are the people that got hurt fighting for us. Maybe we wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for them, to be honest with you. I mean, that’s possible too.
They had a story this morning on Fox, on CNN and a number of them where the veterans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where there’s supposed to be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and there’s nobody there. And the veterans – I don’t know, probably some of you saw it, the veterans are saying “Where are the people?”
And then, they said, “What happened?” And they said, “This happens all the time.” There was not even – nobody even there! And two weeks ago on Wednesday, they had the longest wait in the history – in the history of the Veterans Administration for people wanting to see a doctor.
When I go to a doctor, if I have to wait like 9 minutes, I’m like “Get me – “ I’d go crazy. It’s true.
Remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? Right?
Beada remembers that. You’d have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And he’d come over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days don’t exist anymore.
You know, we’re in age of Obamacare where nothing exists.
By the way, we will repeal and replace Obamacare. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
But, so two weeks ago Wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. So that if you go to the doctor’s office, men and women are waiting four days, three days, one was five days.
One case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor excused himself because he was going on vacation.
Now, you think about that. Can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? But these people are waiting four, five days.
So the wait’s now the longest in history and that’s the way we’re treating our greatest people and that’s not right and we’re going to change that. We’re going to change that.
We have right now – and people don’t know this. You know, they see these phony statistics put out by politicians basically. All talk, no action politicians. And I mean on both sides in all fairness.
You know, I’m a Republican. I’m a conservative. But I’m just as angry with the Republicans because they go to Washington, something happens – they become weak. You know, they go to Washington – “We’re going to stop Obamacare. We’re going to stop this. We’re going to do this. We’re going to do that.”
Then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ceilings, and they go “Oh, I made it, darling, I made it. I vote for you. I vote for you. I vote for Obamacare expansions. I’ll do whatever you want me to do. I’m in Washington.”
It’s amazing. Isn’t it amazing? Don’t you agree?
I won’t happen to me, I promise.
And if it does, you can let me know about it. But it won’t. I promise. I promise.
But you know, they show those phony statistics where we’re 5.4% unemployment. 5.4%. The real number. You know, I actually saw a number it could be 42%, okay, believe it or not.
But when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of the labor force. 93 million people. Of the 93 many of these people want jobs. And they quit looking.
So if you’re looking for a job and you can’t find it and you stop for a while – you know, after a while you sort of like “It’s not happening. It’s not going to happen.” I don’t know what they do. But they stop. They are considered statistically employed. Okay?
So, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. I mean, think about it. It’s hard to believe.
We have 50 million people in poverty. These are very new numbers. 50 million people in poverty. Taking our money.
Japan’s taking our money.
Mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. By the way, they’re killing us on trade. You know that.
In fact, you just lost a big car plant to Mexico in Tennessee. Remember? Recently front page Wall Street Journal. A plant that you were going to have…
You know this is a movement, folks. This is not like maybe even about me. I don’t want it to be about me. This is about common sense. It’s about doing the right thing.
One of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. Some of the polls, I mean, hey, in Iowa, we’re leading big. Those are great people. We just left Iowa. We had such an amazing evening. 4,000 people in a room that never had that many people and it was a happening.
We just left Alabama, which was unbelievable. 31,000 people in a stadium, and it was supposed to pour. And it did. It poured the minute my speech – that’s like luck. That’s from God. The minute the speech was over, we got it and it poured. We had 31,000 people and it was the most unbelievable.
And the poll just came out in Alabama, leading big in Alabama. Leading big in Iowa. Leading tremendously big in New Hampshire. Great people. Leading really big in New Hampshire.
Leading big in Florida. How about Florida? I have a governor. We have a low energy governor and we have a Senator and we’re leading big in Florida. How do you do that when you have a Senator who’s sitting, you have a governor who’s been there for eight years and Trump – ? I love Florida and I’m there a lot. What could be in Florida? Great weather. You have great weather but Florida has great weather. Big advantage.
But you know, I’m leading big in Florida.
But one of the polls came out because in South Carolina and North Carolina, I’m leading really big.
And in South Carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of popularity or favorability – you know, I’m the only one that can get a poll and it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say – I think I had one poll where I’m 41% – almost 41% – can you imagine? 41%. There’s 17 people. So I’m at 41% with 17 people and they said “Trump’s at 41% but look” – you can’t even hear it. You know, “Trump says bleh”. Nobody knows what they just said.
“But there are some people that don’t like him.”
It’s unbelievable. I’m the only one that wins these polls and I get negative publicity. No, it’s incredible. The press, ayeyayay.
…Well, yesterday, you might have seen me. I was in South Carolina. I made a speech. I had to bring it up.
The New York Times to me is a big deal. You know, I’m from New York. Very liberal paper but that’s okay. You know, not everybody could be like us. But it’s still the New York Times. Right? We have to admit, still the New York Times.
And I’m on the front page a lot on the New York Times, and to be on the front page of the New York Times is a big deal.
But yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low level Hispanic commentator. Low level guy. This one didn’t like me.
By the way, I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote and I think – you know, in Nevada, I won the Hispanic poll. They love me.
I love the Hispanic people. Incredible energy. Incredible people. I love the people. I have so many – I have thousands that work for me and thousands and thousands over the years and have worked for me. They’re great people.
And I said, “I’m going to win”. And a lot of the Hispanics that are here legally, they don’t want people coming in illegally. You know it’s true. It’s true.
So there’s this poll that comes out. I think it was in South Carolina where we’re way up and Lindsey at 4% and he’s the Senator. I’m at 30%. So I wrote him a note, “Congratulations. I’m only beating you in your home state by 26 points.”
So anyways, who cares.
But they did something that nobody reported. They say, “Oh but do people like Trump?” By the way, this election is not going to be like.
I think I’m a nice person. I love people. I want to help people.
Women’s health issues to me are very important. To Jeb Bush it wasn’t important because he didn’t want to fund them. And then he said, “Oh, I misspoke.”
But you know, I really want to be a nice person and I am a nice person.
But I think it’s actually going to be an election based on competence. We’re tired of being like the patsy for everybody. I really do. I think it’s time.
But in the poll, this was the Monmouth poll. Big poll. Highly re – “In another act of political magic…Trump managed to flip his favorability rating from negative” – nobody wrote this by the way. Nobody said it. Nobody reported it. “From negative to positive.”
This is an exact quote. I have like this photographic memory so I don’t need – but I want to be sure because if I used the word “the” incorrectly, they’ll say, “He didn’t – “
“Favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a month”. A feat that Monmouth University’s Patrick Murray’s highly respected pollster called “astounding”.
Called it “astounding.” Nobody else wrote about it.
“That defies any rule in presidential politics that I’ve ever seen,” said this highly respected man.
Murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52% in one month and he said that he’s never seen that before.
And you know what? That’s because people have heard me and they say “You’re such a nice person.” No, they want – they say he’s a man – I’ve made a tremendous amount of money. I’ve had tremendous success. And I don’t say that braggingly. That’s the kind of thinking we need in the country. I mean, whatever it is.
But to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing everybody in the poll. We were much, much higher, more than double everybody.
And we are more than double everybody.
You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the same thing. Much, much higher – double and triple and quadruple many of these candidates.
And the reason is people in this country are smart. They don’t believe a lot of what they see in the media because if you believe these people – you know, why are they doing this? I mean, why are they even saying it?
You’d think that if somebody’s good for the country – and I’ll be great for the country because I’m going to make great deals for our country. We don’t win anymore. Our country doesn’t win anymore.
You’d think somebody – even a liberal person or a Democrat liberal and I mean, really liberal. Somebody who’s going to make the country – why are they knocking it? Why are they knocking? Why do they fight?
You’d think they’d say “Let’s do it. It’s good. It’s good for all of us.”
Because our country is in trouble. We owe now $19 trillion. You know, I’ve been saying $18 [trillion] for a while now. But now it starts to go up quickly.
And by the way, when Obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in in ’16, you want to see bad deficits? You want to see it go up? You’re going to really see it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the deficit itself because of the costs. And it’s no good.
Have you noticed – and you’ve seen it yourself – the premiums have gone through the roof? Right? The deductibility – unless you’re close to death, you’re never going to use it. You can’t use it because the deductibility is so high.
But the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. It’s a disaster.
And on top of that, it’s going to cost the country a fortune. So it’s not only costing you a lot of money, it’s going to cost the country a fortune.
So we have to do something about it. And we have to do something importantly about it.
But when I see the people on television and I have to tell you I won’t mention names, some of them when they hear my name – I was talking – we have a great reporter today from the Wall Street Journal with us. Okay? Who came down. And she actually said “Some of them when they hear your name it looks like they’re a boiler waiting to explode.” It’s true.
…Now, number one, they look bad because they said – do you remember the beginning? Like three, four months ago. They said, “He’s a clown. He’s a clown. Just having fun.”
You know, I went to a great school. I did great. I did – everything was great. I came out. I made a fortune, which I want to use the brain for you, but I made a fortune.
I then did a book called The Art of the Deal and many bestsellers. The Art of the Deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. Who has read The Art of the Deal? Yeah, most people. Most everybody.
I jokingly say but I mean it – the Bible tops it by a long way. I say that. I say that. Said it the first time in Iowa. People liked that. But it’s true. Nothing tops the Bible.
But the Art of the Deal – great success. Many books – bestsellers. Many, many bestsellers.
Then I do The Apprentice. I’ve never done television. I do The Apprentice. It’s one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way.
And NBC renewed the Apprentice. You know that. Right? For me.
They came up to my office, the head of Comcast – great guy – I won’t use names. Just say “Steve”. No, honestly he’s a great guy. One of the best in the country. He came up with the heads of NBC six months ago and they said, “Donald, we’re renewing The Apprentice. Please, you’ll have to do – you have to do it.”
I said, “Honestly, Steve, I’m running for President. I want to make our country great again. I want to make -“
And they didn’t believe me. And I said it four times. They didn’t believe me. Nobody believed that I was going to run. Nobody.
My wife didn’t even believe me, but now she does. But she actually said “If you actually say you’re going to run, you’re going to do great because people like you.” She actually said “They’d love you” but I don’t want to brag. But she said, “If you actually run – not you may run, you may not run, who knows?” But she said “If you actually say -“
So the NBC guys come up – terrific people. I mean, honestly I had a great relationship with NBC for 12 years. We had many, many, you know number ones and The Apprentice continues to do great. You know, last season you know how well it did. So they wanted to renew it for many, many shows.
In fact, Mark Burnett called up. You know Mark Burnett. He did Survivor, Apprentice. So Mark Burnett, who’s a great guy, he calls up and he goes “I don’t believe it. You’re not taking a renewal.” The word is renewal. I said, “That’s right, Mark. I’m going to run for President.” “No, no, no, you have to – nobody doesn’t take a renewal. It’s unheard of in primetime television. Two hours primetime. Are you crazy?” I said, “Mark, I have to do this. I’ve done so well in this country. I have to do it.”
We can save our country. We can save our country.
So anyways, the bottom line, NBC renewed it. I told them I’m not doing it, and then they finally believed me when I actually announced.
They don’t like me anymore. It’s amazing. They do not like me.
But it’s too bad. Too bad. Well, thank you.
You know, the funny thing about The Apprentice – there have been 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every single one of them failed. So then a reporter said to me, “Why do you think that is?” I said “Because I’m special.” And I was kidding. I was doing it sarcastically – I mean, I sort of meant it to be honest, right? But I was sort of kidding. And they wrote it and I hated the way it looked in writing. You know, it sounds good when you say it but oh it looks so bad in writing.
But so I had a great experience. So here I am – great schools, great brain, great success, built a great company, do The Apprentice, tremendous success. When I did The Apprentice, a certain critic said “It will never be successful” because you know to have a big hit – a really a number one hit – you have to – and you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. The finale of The Apprentice? Aye! Remember with the great Bill Rancic. Remember how that was? Incredible. But to have a great success, you have to have women.
And I’ll never forget – I saved the article. Right? Like Harry Truman saved it where it said, “Truman loses” and he actually won. Remember? But I saved this article. They said “Trump can never succeed on television because why would women want to watch Donald Trump?” And I said, “Am I so bad? Am I so bad?” Tell me, am I so bad?
And it turned out that women were the biggest base. I mean, those were the ones that liked…So you know I saved those things.
But no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. And honestly, it’s going to be hard. It’s going to be a lot of work. It’s going to be a lot of time. I wouldn’t leave the White House. You know, Obama always leaves the White House. Think of it. You’re elected President. You’re in the White House. Why would you want to leave? I think I’d maybe never leave! How cool is that?
He leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. I’ll try – I don’t know maybe there’s some rules against it. So maybe I can’t. But I’ll do the fundraisers in the White House.
He and his wife left – I think one was doing the Ellen show another was doing another show right next door in Burbank, California. They left a couple of hours difference. One took Air Force One; one took a beautiful Boeing 757. Two planes. A little bit different timing going to the same location, going to the same airport to do different shows.
And I say why? Why aren’t they flying at least the same plane?
Now, I know what those suckers cost because I happen to have one of them right? So I know what it costs to operate these planes…More importantly, the time and the energy. But I would have said Ellen or I would have said whoever was doing the show, “Let’s do it from the White House.” This way, I take a half and hour, I go back, I don’t spend any money of the taxpayers.
…And you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better. “We’re doing our show live from the White House or something”.
So we don’t pay any money. We don’t have to fuel up Air Force One, which costs you – do you ever see what it costs to travel in these things?  With hundreds and hundreds of security and you’re closing down Burbank, California.
I mean, every time Obama comes to Manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, I say “What’s going on? You can’t move. They closed down all the streets. They closed down the city.”
And he could do it from like Washington. In fact, he could do it in my new hotel that I’m buying which is only a couple of blocks.
…It’s true. I’m building this incredible hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue and it’s going to be incredible. The Old Post Office. And I actually got it from the Obama administration, which is hard to believe. People say “What’s going on? How did Trump get it?”
One of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration, which owned it. You know, they’re the ones that made the decision. And I got it and we’re building this phenomenal hotel – Trump International Hotel – right on Pennsylvania Avenue directly between Congress and the White House. Right? It’s going to open just in time – and by the way, listen to this one. We’re under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government? Way under budget.
So we’re actually going to be opening and it’ll be great. But he can use my hotel. I’ll let him use it free. You just come in, use it, go back to the White House. But you don’t have to do that.
But you’d say to yourself why – you know, it’s a mindset. But more importantly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do to straighten out our country. You don’t want to waste time. You’ve got to do this. You’ve got to make deals.
I’ve got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. Carl Icahn – incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker.
I’ve got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. They’re all calling me too. They said “You didn’t ask me.”
I have these guys calling me up – the best in the world.
Now, I know the best. I also know guys that are overrated. I know guys that you haven’t heard of that honestly are phenomenal. I know a lot that you have heard of that aren’t really that good, that are overrated in my opinion.
But they’re the best in the world. And they’re calling me. They don’t want money. They’re worth billions of dollars.
But when I put, let’s say, Carl Icahn and I’ll say “Carl, do me a favor. Handle China.” We’re going to make a great deal. No, no, we’re going to make a great deal because that’s what happens. You know, that’s what happens.
So, we’re going to take back our trade.
If you look at China, if you look at Japan – I was in Los Angeles a few weeks ago. I saw ships – the biggest ships I’ve ever seen with cars pouring our, pouring out one after another, made in Japan, very nice. Everything’s nice. Except that it doesn’t help us. When does it help us? When does it help us?
We sell them beef. Beef. And then they don’t want it. Because you know, do you ever see what’s going on over there? We sell the beef and it goes over there and it’s very perishable. So by the time it gets over there, then they turn it over “We don’t want it.”
They have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. Massive. And they just pour off the ships.
And I say, “What are we doing? How stupid are we? No tax, no nothing.”
And I’m a free trader. I believe in free trade. I have to say. But I have to be fair trade.
When you look at Japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down here. We get nothing by comparison. It’s like peanuts.
Balance it out, fellows. Balance it out. Got to balance it.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. As you know, China has – it’s probably the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done to us. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken everything. They’ve taken so much.
And they’re creating a bubble and you know interestingly we’re so intertwined that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at some point it might.
And we’ve got to be smart.
I made so much money dealing with China. I made hundreds of millions, probably billions, dealing with China.
The Bank of America building in San Francisco – I own a big chunk of that, which nobody knows. Nobody knows.
You know, all these guys come to Forbes. “Oh, Trump’s worth only $5 billion or $4 billion.” Or whatever. “He’s only worth $5 billion.” It’s like a bankrupt magazine…They don’t even know my numbers. They said, “Well, we haven’t been able to look at about 400 of his companies.”
So I filed. Interestingly, they said “He’ll never run. He’ll never run.”
…Then I announced. Then they said, “Oh, he’ll never file his form whatever.” That’s a single page where basically you’re signing your life away and it has to be done within 14 days of the announcement.
I signed my form. And they said, “Well, he’ll never ever put in his financials.” And you have like 90 days or something. And they said, “He’ll ask for extensions but he’ll never show because he’s probably not as rich as people think.”
But actually I’m much richer and I put in my financials – it’s true. It’s true.
And Forbes and another group said, “No, no, we don’t know what these companies are.”
I put in these massive financials, and you know, I was so proud. I might have filed if I wasn’t going to run. I wanted to show people. I wanted to brag. It’s such a great company I’ve built.
So they said, “He’ll never put in his financials.” I put in the financials. And everybody – they’re much bigger. It’s a much bigger – you know, very little debt, tremendous value. And really great assets. Iconic assets. You know, iconic. Doral, Turnberry in Scotland. I mean, I have some of the greatest real estates in the world. And I’m very proud of it.
But they say, “He’ll never file. He’ll never file.”
Then they see all these companies. And you know, they have boxes. And because it wasn’t really meant for somebody like me, and they have these little boxes. They say, “Is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million, from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20 million?” The last box is $50 million or more. $50 million or more.
So like I have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. I have a lot of assets that are worth much more than that.
So it says “$50 million or more”. So I checked many of them. I don’t know how many. I think there’s 23 of them. Can you believe it? So I checked like, I don’t know, I think it’s 23. I could be wrong. Oh, they’ll kill me if I’m wrong. But I’m not sure. But I think it’s like 23 boxes. $50 million or more.
So you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? They added up 23 50s. Now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. Some of them are worth more than a billion.
So it says “$50 million or more”, I go 50. So they’ll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.
And they add them up and they say “Well, he’s worth $2.9 billion.” It’s really – this is the press. And they have no clue. Those statements aren’t really meant for me – it’s not meant for a guy like me.
But with all of that the statements were so good. They’re so good. They’re so good.
And you know, one of the things I’m doing and last night was incredible. We had an amazing event in Massachusetts. Right? Oh, look at this, we have a wit- what the hell are you doing in Nashville? What are you doing?
…Anyway, so here I am. I spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fuel. Okay? Like a lot of money on jets.
But somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. I didn’t know who did it. But somebody puts up a sign.
So all over the place, I’m spending millions of dollars. I’m turning down millions. I don’t want your money. I don’t want your money.
Somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didn’t have to make. But they put it up. It’s all over CNN. “Trump is asking for $100.”
I fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. The fuel. The $100. The money that I raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off like the expense or something. The guy that had it is a great guy – Ernie. A great guy. Really successful guy. You know him, right? Ernie. He’ll sell you a car any day of the week, right?
And you know the guy is – like 2,000 people showed up. Let him get a little deferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell they’re serving.
So they put up a sign. I don’t want the money. I might like $4 or $5 million. That’s hard to turn down. But the hundred dollars times some people and we let the vets there, we let most of the people I think came in free. And I end up with this big story – “Trump accepting contributions”.
I can’t believe it. I got so angry at my people. Because somebody put up a sign saying $100. And honestly, first of all, it’s like peanuts. It doesn’t mean anything. But they used to it to try and marginalize. They always do. They always do.
The bottom line is I am self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding. I don’t want to have anybody giving. I don’t need money. Now, with that being said, the small money comes in and it’s not a lot of money but it’s great money. Like Beada might send me some money. Beada will send me some money.
But a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from Georgia. Another person sent me $12. Small money. And some sent me $1,000. But it doesn’t amount to a lot. But that I do like coming in because they invest in the campaign.
How do I take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to me from Georgia? “Dear So and So, I’m sorry I don’t really want your money.” How do you write a letter like that?
I want them to invest in it. You know, but they’re not going to tell me not to do this or not to do that for China because they are lobbyists for China and they gave me $5 million.
I had a big lobbyist asked me to have – he wanted to give me $5 million for my campaign. I turned him down. I turned him down.
And then I see this story on CNN last night. It was disgusting. That look there’s a sign – $100! Somebody does a sign. It actually was a beautiful sign if you want to know the truth. It was so beautiful. It was beautifully done. And they’re doing this big thing about all day long last night about – I said we had this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. And that’s the press. That’s the media.
Yeah, the criminal media. I mean, there’s truth to it. No, because a lot of times they know it’s wrong.
But I just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an incredible event. It had to be a record for a house. The guy got a beautiful house, got a big lawn, put up a tent. But we had 2,000 people. It had to be a record.
The spirit in that group, the spirit in Alabama, the spirit was so incredible. The spirit in our last meeting in Iowa. Don’t forget.
When I went to Iowa and you know what I love? I’m leading with Tea Party. Big. I love Tea Party. I love the Tea Party. Tea Party people, stand up and take a bow. You have not been treated fairly. No, you haven’t been treated fairly.
You have not been treated fairly.
You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at least I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people don’t.
The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the media. It’s disgusting.
And you will be surprised how big you are. You don’t know how big you are. You don’t know the power that you have. I mean it. You don’t know the power that you have.
The Tea Party and you can call it anything that you want. I don’t care about names. But the Tea Party has tremendous power.
I talked silent majority. But the silent majority is more than Tea Party. It’s Democrats. It’s poor people. It’s rich people. It’s everybody. It’s evangelicals.
One of the things that made me so happy – I’m a protestant. I’m a presbyterian. Right? – is that I had a recent poll and they did a beautiful – like these polls are great. You know, guys like Jeb Bush and Hillary, they hire pollsters. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars. What do you have to do that for? Every week they come out with a new poll. Right?
Hey, I’m rich. I could hire a hundred poll. I don’t want to waste money. You know, why should I pay?
I know in one case…like $150,000 a month. And you know, then they’re arrogant guys. They think they’re hot stuff and they tell the candidates what to say. “You’ve got to say this. You’ve got to be politically correct.”
No way. I don’t have time to be political. No, it’s true. It’s true.
I don’t have time to be political. You know, it takes a lot of time to be politically correct.
You saw the anchor baby thing. Did you see that with where I’m on? And somebody from…it’s the same network – CNN again – he said, “You know the name anchor baby is very insulting?” I said, “What would you call it?” And he gave me like nine words. “A baby of illegal immigrant who was brought to the country to this and that.” I said, “How can I say that? It’s too long.”
It’s anchor baby.
And then Bush – Jeb. Jeb Bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. Honestly.
If you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for Jeb. The country is going to go to hell but we won’t talk of that. No, no, but if you want a nice person.
So Jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. You know, don’t say this, don’t say that. All these things. Pages of stuff.
But one of the things – “Never use the term ‘anchor baby’.”
So all of a sudden, he’s using the term anchor baby just last week.
And with me, when I use it nobody criticizes me. They expect me. They gave up. Okay?
With him, they killed him. They just killed him. It didn’t stop.
And then he blamed it on the Asians. He said, you know – did you see that? And then the New York Times did an editorial “How dare you attack the Asians?”
So he wanted to steer away from the Hispanics. He said, “Well, you know, the Asians come in and they also have anchor babies.” And now the Asians all hate him. It’s true.
But the Asians love me and I love them. I love them.
So he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says – a couple of years ago – “Don’t use this term”, and now he’s using it because he has to.
Because baby – you know, think of it. Think of it. I want to build a wall. Okay? So easy. So easy. When this clown – Jose Reyes or whatever the hell his name – no, he’s a baseball player. Ramos. Actually Jose Reyes is a baseball player. He’s a nice baseball player. But when Ramos got up the other day screaming and ranting and going crazy and I had all these reporters. Actually, the reporters were mostly on my side because they all had their hand up but this guy starts screaming.
So I even had liberal people from CBS – I actually said to the CBS guy “Yes?” and this guy stands up and starts screaming.
So when he – and I actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. I didn’t do anything like – I didn’t do anything. Except for the Times. And that’s what I alluded to before. The Times said, “Donald Trump railed at him and screamed at him.” I didn’t scream at him. But he was screaming at me.
And much worse than that, they said I wore a toupee. Can you believe it? I don’t wear a toupee, and I proved it – I won’t bring anybody up. I won’t bring anybody up. But I don’t.
But think of it. I’m in the front page of the New York Times and in the first sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer – this Hispanic announcer that nobody ever heard of – saying they called him something which means he wears a toupee. And I don’t.
So, I’m on the front page of the New York Times. I can’t even talk about it. I’m embarrassed to talk about it.
But they also said, I was essentially screaming at this guy from Univision, who I happen to be suing for $500 million. They didn’t mention that.
They also didn’t mention that his daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Did you know that? His daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Oh, you didn’t know that. Oh. No, they didn’t mention that. No, no.
They said I was wearing a toupee and I was screaming but they didn’t. No, he’s screaming at me.
So we very nicely – and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice talk. He actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little bit. You know, he’s a very emotional man.
But, he said, “You can’t build a wall because you can’t do it.”
So, 2,000 years ago in China – we always get back to China – 2,000 years ago, the Great Wall of China – oh, we’d like to have a wall. This is a serious wall. Okay? This is a wall you don’t go through so easy.
They built a wall 2,000 years ago that’s 13,000 miles. Think of that. That’s a big wall. That’s serious wall, right? This was 2,000 years ago. I mean, it took them like 500 years to build it so you know, I got to be a little bit – you know, took a long time. But 13,000 miles that’s a long time. They had no tractors. They didn’t have Caterpillars.
Of course, today, we use Komatsus because they’re made in Japan and you could buy them cheaper. How stupid is that? Because they devalued the yen so much and people are buying Komatsus instead of Caterpillars. Caterpillar’s stock is down. It’s terrible. We’ll change that around. Believe me. Believe me.
But, they build this wall. Now, we have really 15 – I would say – look we have 2,000 miles as opposed to 13,000. But you don’t need it on all of it because some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places.
And actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. Hillary wanted it built. But they couldn’t.
Because I’m a great builder. What I do best is build. I’m not a rendering guy. I do the building and then do the rendering. A lot of these guys come in with renderings and it never gets built. Does that make sense to anybody? I’m the opposite. I get it built.
So, one of the reasons it couldn’t get built is because they couldn’t get an approved environmental impact study. Do you believe this? No, no, they had certain snail doggers and different things. They couldn’t get it. They could not get an environmental impact study approved to build a wall.
And they’re killing people. We have illegal immigrants. You see that with Kate in San Francisco. You see it with Jamiel. You see it with so many people.
Last night in Massachusetts I met some unbelievable families that have been devastated by illegal immigrants. They come into this country and kill members of their family.
Last week in California, a 66-year-old veteran – a female, a veteran, 66 – got raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. Raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. 66-years-old. By an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luckily.
But this is what we have. We have stupid people in our government and we have people pouring across the border. And you know what? We have great border patrol people. I went there. You probably saw that. That’s why the hat is so successful. The white one, right?
But I went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. Now they like the white one. Then two weeks later, I wore the red one. The white one didn’t sell so well. The red one sells. Crazy thing.
But I went to the border and I got to know the people and I saw people, and you know it’s rough stuff, it’s rough stuff.
And when I first came in and when I first did my opening statement that I was running for President, I talked about illegal immigration. I was killed by the press.
Rush Limbaugh, who I think is a terrific guy, said “Trump has received more incoming than any human being I’ve ever seen. Then he goes and has a news conference and I think he’s going to apologize and he doubles down.”
I got credit. I got credit.
No, they thought I was going to apologize. And I don’t mind apologizing but I have to make a mistake to apologize and I was right. No, I was right.
So for two weeks, as Rush said, I took incoming…In fact that was my first two weeks. I said “Is it going to be like this for the next year and a half?” I don’t know if I can make it. It was brutal.
Now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, they’ve apologized to me. Everybody says I’m right. And only because of me is everybody talking about illegal immigration. They wouldn’t even be talking about it. They wouldn’t even be talking about it.
And we’re going to build a wall and we’re going to get, you know, the gang members in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. They’re going to be out so fast.
One of the first thing I’m going to do is get rid of those gang members. We’re going to be – you know, you look at what’s going on with Baltimore, you look at what’s going on in Chicago and Ferguson and St. Louis the other night. We are going to get rid of those gang members so fast your head will spin.
You know, we can be very tough. I just met your cops outside. Those police are tough cookies. Those guys – we need law and order. We need law and order.
I mean, they allowed – in one night, that first night in Baltimore – they allowed that city to be destroyed. And they set it back 35 years. One night. Because the police were not allowed to protect people. They weren’t allowed to protect people.
We have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be – the head of the police in Chicago is a person I know. Originally from New York. He’s a phenomenal guy. He can stop things if they’re allowed to stop them. He can stop it. Believe me.
We have some incredible people. But we have to be tough. We have to be smart.
You know, I know you’re going to have some bad apples. You’re going to have problems. I see some of the things. You did too and it’s disgusting and it’s horrible. But that’s such a tiny percentage.
The problem is the good work doesn’t get shown on television. All of the good work, which is 99.9%.
I mean, the good work with the police. It’s 99.9%. That one little thing.
And it’s horrible. I agree. I hated some of the things. I don’t have to go into them. But you know the same ones because you were sick when you looked at some of them just like I was.
But we need law and order. We need our police. They’re great people. They do a phenomenal job. They’re right now afraid of doing anything. They’re afraid.
I mean, I know cities. I won’t mention names but I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension; they don’t want to be thrown off the police force.
And then you wonder why there’s crimes in our cities.
So we need a whole new mindset. We have to build up our military. We have to make our military so strong. We have to make our military so powerful and so strong that we never have to use it. We never have to use it.
We also have to focus on what we have – look, Ukraine. I want Ukraine to be healthy, vibrant and good. But Ukraine is near Germany and all of these European countries. We’re now sending F-22s. That’s the newest fighters. The best in the world. We’re sending fighters every – Where’s Germany? Where are all these European countries? It affects them. It affects them. And we want to stand alongside of them. I agree.
But why are we leading the fight? Putin hates us. He hates Obama. He doesn’t hate us. I think he’d like me. I’d get along great with him I think if you want to know the truth. No, he has no respect for our President and our President doesn’t like him in all fairness. They don’t have good chemistry to put it mildly, would you say. But I’d get along with these people.
Think of it. Every country is ripping us off. Even Russia is ripping us off because in the Iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst deals ever, Russia is a big beneficiary because they’re going to sell Iran missiles with the money we give to Iran. Think of that.
So one of the biggest beneficiaries is Russia. Okay?
But think of it. So, Ukraine – let’s take a few of these things and then I’m getting the hell out of here; I’m going back to New York. Do you mind? Maybe I’ll go to the Grand Ole Opry tonight. Can I do that?
I’d actually rather – I love – by the way, this is not a politician speaking. Believe me. I hope. I love country music. I love it. Hey, Trace Adkins – right? And who else won on The Apprentice? Who else? John Rich. My kids love those two guys. John Rich. And who else? Who did really well? Clint Black. Right? Clint Black. He did great. And my Trace – how good is Trace, okay?
You know, Trace came onto The Apprentice. And I said, “Who the hell is he? Who is he?” I didn’t know who Trace was. I’d never heard of him. And he wasn’t a big name. And he came on – just to show you how important this show is and his record or album or whatever you call it now…it went to number one. And then he came to me the next year…but Trace came to me and he goes – you know, at certain awards show, I won’t mention the name – but he said “Last year, I couldn’t get into the show and this year I’m hosting it, Mr. Trump, all because of you.”
Nice, right? I know, nice.
But those three guys, they’re great and they’re just fantastic people.
But we’ve got to make our country so strong. We have to make our country rich again.
A person came up and said, “Oh, that’s not nice.” What’s not nice? They said rich, you know, to say we’re going to make our country rich.
We can’t make our country great if we’re going to be poor. We’re a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion.
China – think of this – China we owe $1.4 trillion to. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take our manufacturing and we owe them $1.4 trillion. How do you do that? That’s like a magic act. Right? It’s true.
Japan sells us cars by the millions. They make a fortune. They come in, they sell us cars by the millions. And we owe them the exact same amount. We owe them $1.4 trillion. How come if they’re selling us cars we owe them money? Think of it. Put on your business. See? I have a natural instinct for this stuff. Right? You know? Right?
If we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? But we owe them because they take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. And we’re paying interests on them and we owe them money.
So, it’ll change. It can change. It’s not even going to be hard.
People don’t realize. See, Obama never read the Art of the Deal. People don’t realize.
Oh, and somebody said Sharon. It was Sharon. Where’s Sharon? She gave me such a hard time. Where’s Sharon? Where the hell is she? You could have both Sharons stand up actually. Where are they? Both of them. Sharon is great. Oh, did they go after her…She took a lot of incoming. Sharon, did you take a lot of incoming? I think so. Right? Thank you, darling.
So, we are going to do something that if I get elected – and again they said I’ll never run and now…One guy said – John McLaughlin – you ever watch the McLaughlin Report? I like him.
And one of the people on the little group said Donald Trump is a great businessman but he’ll never make it as a President. He’ll never get elected. He’ll never make it. And John McLaughlin – this crusty guy who I like; I don’t know him. I never met him, I don’t think. But I like. He’s sitting there and he goes – and he got angry – he goes “Why wouldn’t he make it? You tell me why. He’s been a tremendous success in everything he’s done. I go all over the world. I see him name. I see his name all over. He’s a great success.”
And he said – I think this is the word – “He’s a man of great achievement. Why wouldn’t he make it?”
And I thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. You know, because you need somebody of great achievement.
You need – I’ve produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. I don’t have to worry about Obamacare. I take such good care of my employees. I have thousands of employees. I take good care of them. We have great plans. My employees are lucky. They hit the lotto, okay? But I take great care – education and health care – and my people are very happy.
But I’ve done this for a long time, and I’ve seen ups and downs. I’ve seen market crashes. I’ve seen friends of mine go bankrupt. You’ve never seen – I’ve never gone bankrupt. By the way, I’ve used the laws to my advantage and companies.
I buy a company. I throw it into a chapter. I negotiate with banks. I kill. You know. And then they say “Trump goes bankrupt.” These people – they don’t have any –
Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it – I mean, they do it all the time. They use it all the time. It’s called using your head. It’s called using the laws.
Actually I did a good job didn’t I at the debate when Chris Matthews so angrily said – I do what every other great businessman does.
I buy a company – you know, it’s one company was sort of interesting. A friend of mine had it. Good guy. And the banks were just killing him. They were mean. And banks can be mean, right?
You’ve got to teach them how to behave, right?
So this guy was just getting beaten. And I did him a favor and I called up the banks. And I said “Do me this, do this, do this, do that.” They said, “We won’t do that. No, we won’t do that.”
I said, “You’re making a mistake.” Anyways, it’s sort of a little bit complicated…I bought it. Immediately, I called them back and said, “Don’t do this.” I threw it into a chapter. And they come out with the story “Trump files bankruptcy”. Can you believe it? I negotiated it to hell. What I did to that bank – ayeyeye.
They see me walking down the street and they go “Hey, hey, hey.” But then I’m good at that stuff, you know? I’m really good at that stuff.
But you have to use the laws to your advantage. No, no, you have to use it to your advantage.
Atlantic City. You know, you look at Atlantic City. Caesar’s went bankrupt. Whoever heard of Caesar’s? Caesar’s filed Chapter 11. Nobody cares. Everybody in Atlantic City. I had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financial media gives me great credit because I have a vision for things.
I said, “Don’t go into Iraq” even though I’m a very militaristic person. I said “Don’t go into Iraq” and they shouldn’t have because I said you’re going to destabilize the Middle East. So what did we get – $2 trillion. Thousands of deaths. Thousands. Like 5,000. Wounded warriors who I love all over the place.
We can’t even go there. Iran is taking over Iraq. With the money that we’re giving them, they’re going to take off and they’re going to get the oil, they’re going to get everything. The oil they don’t get ISIS is getting. What do we get? Nothing. We get nothing. We got far less than nothing.
So I had vision in 2004 – Reuters – actually it was before that but they wrote a story. Trump says don’t do Iraq.
Now, I’m much more militaristic than Bush, even the brother. But you got to know where to use it and when. You got to use.
So with Atlantic City, seven years ago, I got out. That’s called vision. I should get credit for vision.
And again, this isn’t bragging. Normally, I wouldn’t say this but I need your fricking votes. Do you understand that? Do you understand that?
I mean, normally I wouldn’t. So I got great credit. I got out.
But most of the places in Atlantic City are either in trouble or they’re bankrupt. They went bankrupt.
But I made a lot of money in Atlantic City. I had a great time in Atlantic City but they asked me a nasty question, I gave a great answer. I thought. So I think I solved it.
Listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if I win.
We are going to have victories again. We are going to win.
In fact, last night in front of the audience and I’ve never said this before. Last night in front of the audience I said we’re going to have so many victories.
And then I said we’re going to win here. We’re going to win on trade.
We’re going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such great strength that nobody’s going to play with us. Nobody’s going to mess with us. Okay? Nobody.
And we’re going to have victories. So many victories that are going to be coming out…In fact, you might get tired of victories. You may not want anymore…And everyone stood up and said “No, no, no, we want to keep winning.”
If I win, we will have victories all over. We will win on trade. We will win on health care. We will win on everything.
I will protect your Social Security without cuts. I will protect your Medicare and your Medicaid. We are going to have something that’s so special.
And you know, my whole fame is and I’ll say it once. We will make America truly great again.
And thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much!

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you all for being here. This is some turnout. My great honor.
The Chairman just left as you probably know and he’s been extremely fair. The RNC has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period.
And as you know, that’s what I’ve wanted. I wanted fairness.
I don’t have to be treated any differently than anybody else. I just wanted fairness from the Republican Party.
We’re leading in every single poll. A new poll came out today where we’re over 30%. We’ve actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%.
And frankly, I’ve felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the Democrats and very easily I think beat the Democrats no matter who it may be whether it’s Hillary or anybody else and I think maybe Hillary is going to have a very hard time frankly with what’s happening getting to the starting gate, the best way for the Republicans to win is if I win the nomination and go directly against whoever they happen to put up.
And for that reason, I have signed the pledge.
So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the conservative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will fight hard and we will win. We will win.
And most importantly, we will make our country great again because that’s what it’s all about. We have to make our country great again.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
This is a self-funded campaign. We have our heart in it. We have our soul in it. I don’t need money and I don’t want money.
And this is going to be a campaign like I think no other.
I’m not controlled by lobbyists. I’m not controlled by anybody. I’m controlled by the people of the country in order to make our country great again.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Yeah, I got nothing. I really got nothing.
The question was what did I get for signing the pledge? Absolutely nothing. Other than the assurance that I would be treated fairly. And I’ve seen that over the last two months. They really have been very fair.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I have no intention of changing my mind.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think the big thing that’s changed is – and it’s been obvious to all – number one, after I announced, we went up like a rocket ship.
Nobody thought I was going to run and they said “Oh, he won’t run and he won’t put in his papers. And he wouldn’t do all of this.”
I did that. The papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. It’s a great company. I built a great company. And all of the other papers have turned out to be very well received.
And I think the thing that’s changed is the fact that I went to number one place very quickly after I signed and after I in this building notified everybody that I’d be running for President.
So I think the biggest thing is that I went early to number one and the RNC has treated me with great respect.
So that was very important.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I see no circumstances under which I would tear up that pledge.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, you don’t have to be met when you’re at 2%. It’s one of those things. That’s the way life works. And I like Gov. [Chris] Christie, by the way.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, the Chairman asked if he could come up. You saw him. He was here a little while ago. And I was greatly honored that he did come up frankly.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think that when you get right down to it, we’re a nation that speaks English and I think that while we’re in this nation, we should be speaking English. And that’s how assimilation takes. And that’s how – I mean, whether people like it or not that’s how we assimilate and that’s how we go on to that next phase and that next stage.
And that’s how people that don’t speak – and I’m not just talking about Spanish; I’m talking about from various parts of the world – that’s how they will become successful and do great.
So I think it’s more appropriate to be speaking English.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, one of the things I want to do and I feel very strongly it’s a country based on borders and our country is based on laws.
And when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that.
And this is not from South America. This is not from Mexico. This is from all over the world.
When people come illegally, we cannot allow that.
And I want people to come legally. I want very much to take care of our border because our southern border is a total mess. That’s been proven.
And interestingly, a couple of months ago when I announced, I made some very strong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and I’ve been proven right.
And many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which I very much appreciate. Of course, they haven’t done it publicly but these are minor details but someday they will.
The fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. We’re a nation that wants and needs and is based on laws.
And we will make sure that that takes place.
With that being said, I want people to come into our country legally. I want to have a big, fat beautiful open door. I want people of great talent to come in for Silicon Valley. I want engineers. I want physicists. I want people with great talent to come into the United States.
When people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at Harvard or number one at Yale or the Wharton School of Finance or Princeton or Stanford. And immediately if you’re not a citizen of the United States, you get thrown out of the country. We want those people to stay.
We want people of great talent to be in the United States to work here and ultimately to become a citizen.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know enough about it to comment on it. Was she jailed? I really don’t know much about it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That’s absolutely false. I win at golf. I win at golf. That I can tell you.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. I understand the political system and I understand also very much a system for coming in for illegal immigrants.
Don’t forget if I didn’t bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wouldn’t be asking the question. Nobody would be even talking about immigration. And immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor.
Now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since I brought it up.
But if I didn’t bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that we’re talking about and it happens to be a very important subject.
I have to say this: It can also be a very positive subject because I believe so strongly in immigration and I just – we have to stop illegal immigration and we have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner.
But if I didn’t bring it up, nobody would be talking about it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, there is gridlock in Congress right now and that’s because there’s no leadership at the top. You have to be able to lead. You have to be able to get people into your office. You have to get people go to them. Any way you want to do it. But you have to be able to lead. There is no leadership at the top.
Signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t want to talk about that. It’s inappropriate.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Tom Brady? Well, Tom Brady is a very good friend of mine. He’s a great guy.
For those of you who don’t know him, he’s a very honorable and an honest guy and a truly great athlete. He is really a very good friend of mine.
And I just spoke to him a little while ago. He’s so thrilled and so happy.
Tom Brady – I think what they’ve done is terrible. And he’s been exonerated as I understand it because I just heard about it. But I’m very happy for Tom.
As far as the Commissioner is concerned, they’re having a rough year. Let’s face it. They’re having a very rough year.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. And it’s a huge humanitarian problem.
And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels and everything is falling apart. Our nation’s in such trouble.
That’s why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I think will greatly help.
But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have – health care, which is a mess.
You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. People are saying “This is turning out to be a disaster.” Deductibles are through the roof. The deductibles on Obamacare it’s through the roof.
So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build up our military.
Just the other day, Gen. [Ray] Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness.
Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at Hillary Clinton – and I’ve said she’s the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country.
Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement that’s about to be finalized with Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place.
I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middle East. It’s going to lead to nuclear proliferation – the 24-day clause – everything about it. We don’t even get our prisoners back. You say who negotiates a thing like that?
That won’t happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
You’ll see it later. Yeah. They don’t want to hear it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…I would say very simply I just want to be treated like everybody else.
You see, I was always the fair hair boy. I was a big contributor. Nobody knows the system. But I was on the other side. And I was the elite. I was the fair hair person.
Once I ran, all of a sudden I was a little bit of an outsider. I became an outsider because I was running. Because I wasn’t supposed to run.
I’m this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great businessman. But I’m not supposed to be running for office.
The fact is that our country is being killed on trade by China, by Japan, by Mexico both at the border and on trade.
And I’m not knocking those countries. Their leaders are much, much smarter than our leaders. They are absolutely killing us.
China – taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. And think of this: We owe China $1.4 trillion and we’re paying them interest.
We owe Japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount – $1.4 trillion.
Now, that’s like a magic act. They send the cars in, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. That’s not going to happen with me.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…Well, Jeb Bush is a very nice man. I’ll be honest. I think he’s a very nice person. I think he’s a very low energy person and I don’t think that’s what the country needs.
I hear he’s going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me.
And honestly, look, he’s getting the money from special interests. He’s getting the money from lobbyists and his donors. And they’re making him do it because he’s crashing in the polls.
So I don’t know what’s going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 million on negative ads – I don’t know. I know that my life will continue. I just don’t know. I mean nobody’s ever spent money on ads against me. But he probably has to do that although it would not be the way I’ve done.
You know, one of the things I’m most honored about is that so far everybody that’s attacked me has gone down the tubes.
You have Lindsey Graham attacked me. He was at 3%. Now he’s at zero.
You have Perry attacked me. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at 4% or 5%. Now he’s getting out of the race. He was at zero.
Everybody – Rand Paul attacked me. I see the last poll – the Monmouth poll that just came out today where I’m leading by double figures and Rand Paul is down to less than 2% and he attacked me.
Now, Jeb Bush also just went down in the Monmouth poll very big.
So I don’t know. Are they going to spend – he’s going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money. Remember this – they have total control over Jeb and Hillary and everybody else that takes that money.
Nobody knows the system better than me. They have total control.
You understand it very well because you’ve been covering it for a long time. Those people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total control over your candidate.
I will tell you this: Nobody’s putting up millions of dollars for me. I’m putting up my own money.
In fact, I feel a little bit foolish. People are offering me millions and millions of dollars. You know, when you’re in first place, you can collect so much money and I keep turning them down. I feel like – am I a fool? I feel very foolish.
And when I was in Iowa last week, I said “What do you think? Can I take – “ One man offered me – a big lobbyist – offered $5 million for my campaign. I said to the crowd in Iowa – great crowd, 4,000 people – I said “Can I take it? And would you believe I’m not going to do anything? I promise you. I swear to you I won’t do anything.” And they all stood up and said “No, no, don’t take it.”
The fact is I’m the only self-funder. I’m putting up my own money.
I know there have been some super PACs – 5 or 6 super PACs – where people are forming super PACs for Trump. I have nothing to do with them. As you know, you’re not allowed to have anything to do with them. So I don’t know what they’re going to do.
Hopefully, if they’re going to do something it’s going to be nice. But I don’t know anything about them.
But just in a nutshell, I’m funding my own campaign. Nobody else’s.
When people advertise – and I hope the voters can see this. Every negative ad they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. So just remember that.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Our country could be doing much better. We have deficits that are enormous. We have all bad trade agreements. We have an Army that the heads said is not prepared. We have a military that needs help and especially in these times.
We have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 Minutes they don’t even work. Okay? If anybody saw that report. The phones don’t work. They’re 40 years old. They have wires that are no good.
Nothing works. Our country doesn’t work.
Everybody wins except us. We need victories in this country. We don’t have victories any more.
Our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think it’s great that she’s [Carly Fiorina] in the debate. I was in favor of her being – I think she should be in the debate.
I don’t like the fact that there are 11 people now as I understand it. They’re not getting rid of Rand Paul or somebody. But I think they should because there’s too many people.
Because when you have 11, you’re not getting to hear me and you’re not getting to hear other people talking and I think that’s too bad. I think 11 is a lot of people.
But I was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves to be in the debate.
…

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think maybe he’s [Joe Biden] inclined not to get in the race. I think it’s going to depend on what happens with Hillary Clinton.
A lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a criminal standpoint to the starting gate. I don’t know that to be true.
But I think it depends on what happens with her.
I think if she gets out, he will get in. I think if she stays in, he might not.
Who knows?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Oh, he’s not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office and he got the pledge and we’re very happy about that. We don’t want anything – and I told him. I said, “I don’t know if it’s appropriate Reince for you to be here because I don’t want anything – “ You know, you guys will end up saying he’s endorsing Trump.
So I suggested frankly that I’m fine with him not being here because I don’t want anybody to think he’s endorsing.
As far as Jeb is concerned, I watched him this morning on television and it’s a little bit sad.
Don’t forget. He was supposed to win. And he just doesn’t have the energy.
But what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special interests, donors, and lobbyists.
And I just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not – if I were him, I’d spend money on positive ads about himself. Because if he knocks me, assuming people leave and maybe they’re at a point where they’re not going to leave because they’re fed up with what’s happening in this country, but I think they’re going to go to people other than Jeb.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know. Right now, I’m interested in jobs. One thing – one of the groups, it was actually CNN. I shouldn’t say that. But they did a very massive poll and I came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number one in jobs producing.
And I don’t mean by number one. I mean like number one by many, many times. And I am so intent on putting people back to work in this country.
You know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 million.
When they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. They take them off the statistics. We have 93 million people.
We have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all.
Our country can be great again. We have to put people back to work.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Would I bring my children into the administration? I will tell you they are very capable. The answer is probably not. But having them in would be very good. They’re very, very capable children.
The second part I won’t bother asking you. It’s no longer pertinent.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Kanye West? You know what? I’ll never say bad about him. You know why? Because he loves Trump. He loves Trump. He goes around saying “Trump is my all-time hero.” He says it to everybody.
So, Kanye West – I love him. Now, maybe in a few years I’ll have to run against him. I don’t know. So I’ll take that back.
But he’s been so nice to me.
You people have sort of seen because I’ve been a counter-puncher. I only hit people when they hit me. Only. And Kanye West has been so great. I would never say bad about him because he says such nice things about me.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, my supporters are really supporting me because I’m very competent, because they know that I’m not going to let China rip us off. I’m not going to let Japan rip us off.
Japan is devaluing their yen. Very hard for Caterpillar and other companies to compete against Komatsu – their big tractor maker – and others. We’re not going to let this happen anymore.
They do – you talk about a trade imbalance. They have in Japan the biggest ships you’ve ever seen pouring cars into Los Angeles, pouring them in. I’ve never seen anything like it. We send them beef and they don’t even want it.
It’s going to end and they’re going to like us.
In this building, I have the largest bank in the world. Right up these elevators. It’s a bank from China. By far the biggest bank in the world.
I get along great with China. I get along great with Japan. I get along great with Mexico.
I love the people. I love the people of Mexico. I love the Hispanics. I have thousands of Hispanics right now working for me. Over the years, I have employed tens of thousands of Hispanics – many from Mexico. I have unbelievably great relationships.
And in the package that we gave you, you’ll see there’s a poll and I’m number one with Hispanics. You saw that. Number one with Hispanics.
So, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. We’re going to be great to the vets. We’re going to be terrific. Our military is going to be unbelievable.
All of these things – we’re going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with something that’s much better and much less expensive. We’re going to get rid of it. We’re going to repeal it. It’s going to be out. Should have been out a long time ago. Should have never happened.
But we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs and we’re going to bring back wealth to the United States so we can afford to save Social Security, which I’ll save without cuts, so that we can afford to do the kind of things that we have to do to make America great again.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And here is your pledge.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
You know it’s a bubble waiting to explode, and I’ve been saying that for a long time. I’ve been saying what they’re doing in China is a bubble waiting to explode.
And just remember something, when it’s a bubble…we can’t be brought down by that bubble. They’ve done things that caused it. We can’t be brought down by that bubble.
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

[REM’s “It’s the End of the World” playing]
Thank you very much everybody. It’s such an honor.
I was called by Sen. [Ted] Cruz a few days ago and he said, “Do you think we can get a really good crowd out here to protest this incompetent deal?” And I said, “Boy, can we get a crowd.” And that was three days ago and look what shows up and I want to thank you. I want to thank you.
So, I’ve been doing deals for a long time. I’ve been making lots of wonderful deals, great deals. That’s what I do.
Never, ever, ever in my life have I seen any transaction so incompetently negotiated as our deal with Iran. And I mean, never.
Now, Ted and everybody else have gone through all of the details and we can talk about the 24 days, which is ridiculous.
We can talk about the $150 billion, which by the way they get even if the deal isn’t approved. They get it just for going to the table.
We can talk about the fact that we have four wonderful people over there and frankly they’re never going to come back with this group.
And I’ll say this: If I win the presidency, I guarantee you that those four prisoners are back in our country before I even take office. I guarantee that.
They will be back before I ever take office because they know that’s what has to happen. Okay? They know it. And if they don’t know it, I’m telling them right now.
So, I have a story that just came out an hour ago and as President Obama calls him very routinely, he calls him the Supreme Leader. Our President is calling the person who is really the boss in Iran Supreme Leader and I look at people shaking their head; they can’t believe it. But it just came out a little while ago, he said “Israel will not exist in 25 years.”
Think of that. He just said this.
He also said very strongly, very, very strongly that “This is the end of our dealings with the United States. We want nothing more to do with them. We’re not going to do anything right here. We made this deal. It’s a phenomenal deal. We’re not going to deal with the United States anymore.” And that’s what he just said and this was a very short period of time ago.
So, they rip us off. They take our money. They make us look like fools. And now they’re back to being who they really are. They don’t want Israel to survive. They will not let Israel survive with incompetent leadership like we have right now. Israel will not survive.
And then when it’s all done or they think it’s all done, they come out with these unbelievable nasty statements that Israel won’t be around in 25 years and that we will have no dealings and we will have no further dealings with the United States.
Now, the people that we were negotiating with and were working on the sanctions, with including and as an example Russia who is selling tremendous missiles to Iran. You know that. Ballistic missiles being sold.
All of these countries – all of these countries – are going to do business with Iran. They’re going to make lots of money and lots of other things with Iran.
And we’re going to do – and we’re going to get nothing. Nothing.
We are led by very, very stupid people. Very, very stupid people. We cannot let it continue.
We are a country that owes $19 trillion. We lose everywhere.
We lose militarily. We can’t beat ISIS. Give me a break! We can’t beat anybody.
Our vets are being treated horribly.
It will change. We will have so much winning if I get elected that you may get bored with winning. Believe me.
I agree. You ‘ll never get bored of winning. We’d never get bored.
We are going to turn this country around. We are going to start winning big league on trade, militarily.
We’re going to build up our military. We’re going to have such a strong military that nobody – nobody – is going to mess with us. We’re not going to have to use it.
I really, really this tremendous crowd. We are going to make America great again!
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
…Boy, oh, boy. I didn’t expect that. You know, Joe [Arends] and the group [Veterans for a Strong America] called and they said “Would you come over and speak?”
I’m here for a certain reason. You know, it’s called tomorrow night. So I got here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to come over and say a few words. An endorsement from your group with so many veterans – hundreds of thousands of veterans – I really appreciate that, Joe. I did not expect that.
I didn’t expect it. I didn’t ask for it.
I will say this: I am with the veterans 100%. They’re our greatest people. They’re being treated terribly.
Not only the number of deaths, which are obviously – that’s what’s going on is incredible.
But as of two weeks ago on Wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. You go in to see a doctor, you wait for days, for days.
And it’s not going to happen. Not going to happen. If I win, believe me, it’s not going to happen.
And one of the things I thought I’d do and I’d stress so strongly – the veterans hospitals – obviously they have problems. They’re not properly run.
And when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have the doctor say “I’m sorry. I’m going on vacation”, believe me, it doesn’t get much worse than that.
So we’re going to create a whole new system. We’re going to take this system apart.
And if they’re not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and we’re going to reimburse those doctors and those hospitals.
And you’re going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country because you deserve it. And that’s going to be broken down into something that’s going to be very special.
Right now – and you know it – we have illegal immigrants that are treated better by far than our veterans. It’s not going to happen anymore. It’s not going to happen.
So, Joe, I just really appreciate it. So unexpected.
To be here is an honor. They don’t build ships like this anymore, folks. You know? We don’t do them this way anymore.
I actually said what about recommissioning – look at this thing. The largest guns in the world. The most powerful guns. I learned about the Iowa.
By the way, Iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. You know? We have been treated so well in the state of Iowa. It’s been incredible. Number one on the polls and we love those people. They’re great.
So this is a great ship and that’s a great state.
I just want to say that we’re going to come out with some plans in a very short time.
We’re going to be building up our military. We’re going to make our military so big and so strong and so great.
And it will be so powerful that I don’t think we’re going to ever have to use it. Nobody’s going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
And we’re going to have a President who’s respected by Putin, who’s respected by Iran.
You know, let’s talk about for two seconds, let’s talk about the Iran deal.
Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about the Supreme Leader. Well, I’m not calling him a Supreme Leader.
But he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the United States again. “We’re finished with the United States.”
They’re taking $150 billion. They’re getting a deal that’s going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.
They’re going to self-police – think about that one – they are going to go and self-police.
They’ve got the 24-day – they have 24-day provisions. And by the way, what people don’t understand – the 24-day provision doesn’t start – you know this, right? It doesn’t start for a long time before you even get to it. The clock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there.
It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts I’ve ever seen of any kind.
So, we are going to do things and this country right.
We’re not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and there’s still there and we don’t even ask for them.
One of them is there because he’s a Christian. We have a writer. We have – the whole thing is absolutely insane.
You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who maybe – you know, I’ve been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Right? All right. I’ve been saying it. But it’s possible – the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. The whole world is like a different place.
It’s possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that he’s going to supersede. And I understand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no chance.
So we’re going to see what happens.
We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration.
Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announced I was running for President.
And for two weeks, I said – you know, Rush Limbaugh – he’s a great guy – he said “He has suffered more incoming” – meaning the press – “than anybody I’ve seen.”
So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and I am so happy that I’m the one that brought it to the fore because believe me, it’s a big problem. It is a big problem.
So you remember for about two weeks, I said, “Boy this is tougher than I thought running for President.” And then you found out there’s tremendous crime. There’s tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to Chicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country.
So the drugs pour in and the money pours out. Not a good deal. We get the drugs, they get the money. The drug cartels are going wild. They cannot believe how stupid our government is.
They are making a fortune. The drugs come in. The money goes out daily. And I saw it because I was on the border. I was there. And we saw it. And everybody sees it everyday.
And we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no leadership. None. None whatsoever.
So, we’re going to build a wall and Mexico’s going to pay for the wall, believe me. You know, a lot of politicians have said “Oh, they’re not going to pay”. They don’t know anything about – they never read the Art of the Deal, first of all.
So here’s the story. So here’s the story. I said the other day to one of my people “What is the United State’s trade deficit with Mexico, Japan, and China?”
So let’s start with China. Almost $400 billion a year.
Now, if you have a company where you’re losing $400 billion, you’ve got to do something very fast.
We don’t. We’ve been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly for decades.
Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore.
With Japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the cars, right? They drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars – millions of cars – and we sell them beef. We sell them beef.
And they don’t want it because their farmers don’t want our beef. They protest and they send it back. All right?
It’s not going to happen that way anymore.
Now, with Mexico – and I love Mexico. I have many, many people – many, many people from Mexico that work with me and they work for me and they buy my apartments.
Same with China. I have so many people. They pay me millions and millions. What am I supposed to hate China because they gave me millions of dollars to buy an apartment? I don’t think so.
I had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. It’s from China. Bigger than any bank in this country by many times. They’re from China.
The problem that we have is that the leaders of Mexico, Japan, and China and every other country that we do business with, they’re smarter, more cunning, sharper than our leaders.
I love free trade. The concept is great. But you need smart people.
…
I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest.
I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. They’re wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals.
You know, it’s a talent. It’s a talent. You can’t be a politician.
Look, I’m fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though I’m leading in the polls. But they’re very nice people.
But they’re never going to do anything with these countries. They’re never going to be able to do it. It’s an instinct. It’s something that’s special. They don’t have it. Believe me, they don’t have it.
It’s just going to be more of the same.
So, we are going to make our country so great.
We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful.
We’re going to rebuild the military. We’re going to make it so strong.
We are going to take care of our veterans.
And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day.
The other week – two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31,000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and we’re talking about making America great again.
Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20,000 people – the basketball arena of the Mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and I want to tell you, it was a love fest. Everybody – think of it, 20,000 people – there wasn’t one heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, “There’s got to be one.”
There was a word – two words that used to be used a lot called “silent majority”. They stopped using them.
The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat different.
I don’t think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because they’re not silent. People are not silent.
They’re disgusted with our incompetent politicians.
They’re disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.
They’re disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job.
They’re disgusted when they’re allowed people to just walk right in front of them and they’re standing there helpless and people just pour into the country.
They’re disgusted when a woman who’s nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years.
They’re disgusted by what’s happening to our country.
And you’re going to look around and you’re going to remember who the people are that are here because we’re doing something special. This is a movement. We’re going to make our country great again.
Believe me, we will make our country great again.
I love you all. Thank you very much.
I’m Donald Trump. I wrote the Art of the Deal.
I say not in a braggadocious way I’ve made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all of the world.
And I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again, we build up our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life all together.
Thank you.
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn’t even be on this stage. He’s number 11. He’s got 1% in the polls. And how he got up here – there’s far too many people anyway.
As far as temperament and we all know that. As far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament.
I’ve built a phenomenal business with incredible iconic assets – one of the really truly great real estate businesses.
And I may be an entertainer because I’ve had tremendous success with number one best sellers all over the place with the Apprentice and everything else I’ve done.
But I will tell you this what I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman and that’s the kind of mindset that this country needs to bring it back.
Because we owe $19 trillion right now. $19 trillion. And you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.
And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm. But we will be respected outside of this country. We are not respected now.
Obviously I’m doing pretty well. I’m number one in every poll by a lot.
But the qualification is that I’ve dealt with people all over the world, been successful all over the world.
Everything I’ve done virtually has been a tremendous success.
When markets changed, when things turned, I heard Gov. Pataki who by the way was a failed governor in New York. A very seriously failure. He wouldn’t be elected dog catcher right now.
I heard what he had to say and I will tell you this: Atlantic City – I made a tremendous amount of money in Atlantic City. I left seven years ago. I’ve gotten great credit for my timing. And that’s what I’m about.
I’m a businessman. Did really well. Really well.
And Jeb, what I want to do is to put that ability into this country to make our country rich again. And I can do that and I’m not sure that anybody else in the group will be able to do that.
So, number one, they have to respect you. He [referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin] has absolutely no respect for President Obama. Zero.
Syria is a mess. You look at what’s going on with ISIS in there.
Now, look at this. We’re fighting ISIS. ISIS wants to fight Syria. Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria? Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.
I would talk to him. I would get along with him.
I believe – and I maybe wrong in which case I’d probably have to take a different path – but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.
We don’t get along with China. We don’t get along with the heads of Mexico.
We don’t get along with anybody and yet at the same time they rip us left and right. They take advantage of us economically and in every other way.
We get along with nobody. I would get along I think with Putin and I would get along with others. And we will have a much more stable – stable – world.
I believe that I will get along – we will do between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems. We won’t have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations.
Number one, I wouldn’t have drawn the line but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across. They do bear some responsibility but I think he’d probably didn’t do it not for that reason.
Somehow he just doesn’t have courage. There’s something missing from our president.
Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force and had done something to Assad – if he had gone in there with tremendous force, you wouldn’t have millions of people displaced all over the world.
…I think they [the Senators who voted against authorizing Obama to use force against Assad] had a responsibility. Absolutely. I think we have three of them here. I think they had a responsibility.
I think it’s a terrible statement. I think it’s going to haunt him absolutely.
He came back later he said he misspoke.
There was no question because I heard when he said the statement I was watching and he said the statement and I said “Wow, I can’t believe it.”
I will take care of women. I respect women. I will take care of women.
One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation. We’re talking about Iran. The agreement was terrible. It was incompetent. I’d never seen anything like it. One of the worst contracts of any kind I’ve ever seen. And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons.
And somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places but certainly North Korea.
…We’re talking about Iran. They’re bad actors. Bad things are going to happen. But in the meantime you have somebody right now in North Korea who’s got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I’m ready to use them and we don’t even mention them.
I don’t believe Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government.
Those organizations should get funding just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.
That’s the way you do this is you improve the condition for people.
And Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women. Women’s income grew three times faster than national average when I was governor…
First of all, I want to build a wall – a wall that works. So important and it’s a big part part of it.
Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside and I think Chris knows that maybe as well as anybody.
They go, if I get elected, first day they’re gone. Gangs all over the place. Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you live.
We have a country based on laws. I will make sure those laws are adhered to.
These are illegal immigrants.
I don’t think you’d even be asking this question if I didn’t run. Because when I ran and I brought this up at my opening marks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time.
And then they found out with the killing of Kate from San Francisco and so many other crimes, they found that I was right. And most people, many people apologized to me.
I don’t think you’d even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren’t for me.
So, we have a country of laws. They’re going to go out and they’ll come back if they deserve to come back.
If they’ve had a bad record, if they’ve been arrested, if they’ve been in jail, they’re never coming back.
We’re going to have a country again. Right now we don’t have a country, we don’t have a border, and we’re going to do something about it and it can be done with proper management and it can be done with heart.
We have a country where to assimilate, you have to speak English. And I think that where he was and the way it came out didn’t sound great to me.
We have to have assimilation to have a country. We have to have assimilation.
I’m not the first one to say this…We have many people over the years for many, many years saying the same thing.
This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
But the simple fact is if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish – a school by the way a voucher program that was created under my watch, the largest voucher program in the country where kids can go to a Christian school and they ask me a question in Spanish, I’m going to show respect and answer that question in Spanish even though they do speak English and even though they embrace American values.
Well, first of all, the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars, not television scholars but legal scholars that it is wrong. It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn’t even need that.
A woman gets pregnant. She’s nine months. She walks across the border. She has the baby in the United States and we take care of the baby for 85 years. I don’t think so.
And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn’t have that.
We’re the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it.
And people – and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico. They’re coming from Asia to have babies here and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby.
The 14th Amendment, it reads properly. You can go and it’s probably going to have to check and go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court.
But there are a lot of legal scholars that say that is not correct.
And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no – we’re the only country – one of the only countries – we’re going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years. I don’t think so.
I agree 100% by the way with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem for the obvious reasons. They do not.
But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can’t be done.
I’ve seen both sides but some of the greatest scholars agree with me without having to go through Congress.
But if you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem.
Let me just explain. The head of the Yale Business School Jeffrey Sonnenfeld wrote a paper recently. One of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business. The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster. They still haven’t recovered.
In fact, today on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25,000 or 30,000 people saying we still haven’t recovered from the catastrophe.
When Carly says the revenues went up that’s because she bought Compaq. It was a terrible deal and it really to the destruction of the company.
Now, one of the company before that was Lucent. Carly was at Lucent before that, and Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also.
So I only say this: She can’t run any of my companies. That I can tell you.
I’ve made over $10 billion. I had a casino company. Caesar’s just filed for bankruptcy.
Chris will tell you – it’s not Chris’s fault either.
But almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or I’ve filed for bankruptcy –
Atlantic City is a disaster and I did great in Atlantic City. I knew when to get out. My timing was great and I got a lot of credit for it.
Many of the great business people that you know – and Carl Icahn’s going to work with me on making great deals to this country – but whether it’s Carl or so many others that we read about all the time, they have used the laws of the land…
Well, I think the thing about the flat tax – I know it very well – that I don’t like is if you make $200 million, you’re paying 10% – you’re paying very little relatively to somebody that’s making $50,000 a year and has to hire H&R Block to do it because it’s so complicated.
One thing I’ll say to Ben is that we’ve had a graduated tax system for many years. So it’s not a socialistic thing.
What I’d like to do is – and I’ll be putting it into plan in about two weeks and I think people are going to like it.
It’s a major reduction in taxes. It’s a major reduction for the middle class.
The hedge fund guys won’t like me as much as they like me right now. I know them all but they’ll pay more. I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax and I think it’s unfair.
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt – nice man – he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding and he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he’s ever done. Now or unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice but he did say that.
…And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word.
But I would say – well, I think it was. And he actually said that. Did you say that?
Okay, so I will say this though you was giving me name after name – Arab name, Arab name, Arab name – and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names.
I think he was reading them off a sheet.
And frankly I will have and I told him I will have the finest team that anybody’s put together and we will solve a lot of problems.
You know, right now, they know a lot and look at what’s happening. The world is blowing up around us.
We will have great teams and great people.
You have to understand I am not sitting in the United States Senate with by the way the worst voting record there is today. Number one, I am not sitting in the United States Senate.
I’m a businessman doing business transactions.
I will know more about this and as you’ve said that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview it was a great interview. You said it; I didn’t.
I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit – and you look at what’s going on in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess.
I understand and I’m meeting with people that are terrific people.
But I have to say something because it’s about judgment.
I am the only person on this dais – the only person – that fought very, very hard against us – and I wasn’t a sitting politician – going into Iraq.
Because I said going into Iraq – that was in 2003 – you can check it out. I’ll give you 25 different stories. In fact, a delegation was sent to my office this evening because I was so vocal about it.
I’m a very militaristic person but you have to know when to use the military.
I’m the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq.
…
I would like and I think it’s very important – I think it’s important because it’s about judgment. It’s about judgment.
I didn’t want to go into Iraq and I fought it because what I said is you’re going to destabilize the Middle East and that’s what happened.
I would almost say leave it up to them. But I would be willing to check it off and say I will not get Social Security…
As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people. Don’t forget, they pay in and they pay in and maybe do well and maybe some people want it.
But the fact is that there are people that truly don’t need it and there are many people that do need it very, very badly. And I would be willing to write mine off 100%.
Autism has become an epidemic.
25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. Not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines but I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Because you take a baby in – and I’ve seen it and I’ve seen it and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time, same exact amount. But you take this little beautiful baby and you pump – I mean, it looks just like it’s meant for a horse not for a child.
And we’ve had so many instances – people that work for me just the other day – two years old, two and a half years old, a child – a beautiful child – went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.
I only say – I’m in favor of vaccines. Do them over a longer period of time. Same amount but just in little sections.
And I think you’re going to have – I think you’re going to see a big impact on autism.
But the fact of the matter is we have extremely well-documented proof that there’s no autism associated with vaccinations.
But it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too short period of time, and a lot of pediatricians now recognize that and I think are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done. And I think that’s appropriate.
If I become President, we will do something really special. We will make this country greater than ever before. We’ll have more jobs. We’ll have more of everything.
We were discussing disease. We were discussing all sorts of things tonight – many of which will just be words. It’ll just pass on.
I don’t want to say politicians all talk, no action, but a lot of what we talked about is words and it’ll be forgotten very quickly.
If I’m President, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten.
We’ll find solutions and the world will respect us. They will respect us like never before.
And it will actually be a friendlier world.
And I have to say it’s a great honor to be here tonight.
So, we’re going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again.
It’s a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again.
Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too many middle income families cannot make ends meet.
This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.
It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans. There will be a major tax reduction.
It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it hasn’t seen for decades.
And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.
But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and we’ve got to make our economy strong.
Changes for individuals will be at levels that you haven’t seen in a long time.
We’re going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.
If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50,000 – so, very important. If you’re single and earn less than $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, you’ll not pay any income tax – nothing.
This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair penalty.
It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax.
It ends the death tax. It’s a double taxation. A lot of families go through hell over the death tax.
It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich – in other words, it’s going to cost me a fortune, which is actually true – while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. Very importantly.
It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund folks that I’ve been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money. Carried interest.
So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their own capital.
Changes for business – now, so important, because it’s all about business. It’s all about jobs.
We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they can’t work.
So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Big reduction.
A one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount – 10%. So it comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad.
Now, it’s called corporate inversion. It’s a huge subject.
I’ve been watching politicians now for years – all talk, no action politicians. I’ve been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back.
The number is probably $2.5 trillion.
Everybody agrees it should come back – Republicans, Democrats, everybody.
They can’t make a deal. They don’t know how to go about making a deal.
The reason companies aren’t bringing it back is the tax is onerous. It doesn’t make sense to bring it back.
And in fact, many companies are leaving the United States. They’re leaving our shores to go and collect their money.
They’re going actually moving out of the United States for two reasons – the taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of money that they can’t bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back in.
It’s called leadership.
We will have that money brought back in.
As an example, I have millions of dollars overseas. I can’t bring it back into this country. We filed papers. We’ve been doing this for a year and a half. We can’t get it back in.
So the money stays in other countries and that’s what happens. Not good for us.
The level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so important. But this is something – and I’ve been watching it for a long time – everybody agrees to.
We also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes – many of them actually – and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax rate on business income.
The tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated, which don’t make sense, and which are unfair are gone.
And we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest expense.
So we are going to give you – we have a very complex set of papers that actually if you know business is not so complex. And we’re going to hand them out right now to the press.
And I think you’ll see we have an amazing code. It will be simple. It will be easy. It will be fair.
It’s graduated. As you get up in income, you pay a little more.
Some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make a lot of money will not be available any longer.
But I actually believe they’ll do better because I think the economy will grow. It will grow rapidly. And we’ll have something very special.
Now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to cut the costs of what’s going on in this country.
If you look at what we’re doing and the money we’re spending. I read where a washer – you know what a washer is? Nuts, bolts, and washer – to send from one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900,000 and some odd dollars to send it from here to there.
And there are many examples. Hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the store for a tiny amount of money.
We will run this country properly. There is so much money to be saved.
We’re reducing taxes but at the same time if I win, if I become President, we will be able to cut so much money and have a better country.
We won’t be losing anything other than we’ll be balancing budgets and getting them where they should be.
So, this is a plan that’s simple, that’s a major reduction. I think people are going to be very happy. We’ve already had some very good reviews.
I did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts that there are in this country. They love it; they say “Why hasn’t this been done before?”
And this is my wheelhouse. That’s what I do well.
The economy is what I do well. Whenever they do polls, I always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but I won’t say that.
So, if anybody has – [applause] – thank you. That’s amazing. That’s some of the press was actually clapping. I’ve never saw – I don’t think I’ve ever seen that before.
All right. Why don’t we take some questions from the press?
And by the way, if we have more than 3%, these numbers are really spectacular.
And one of the things that they don’t take into account in any big league fashion is the cutting. There is so much waste in government and I believe when I get in there I’ll be able to cut without losing anything to cut tremendous amounts off of the – and we’re not even showing anything for that.
So, they’re very conservative numbers.
When I do my return, it will be much – my return go up to the ceiling and beyond, which is ridiculous. And you spend millions of dollars at a high level on lawyers, accountants, and everything else.
We want to simplify them to a tremendous level.
The bracket of 25% – the big difference is many of the loopholes and many of the deductions which are all – they’ve been there for years – are antiquated in many cases.
Or are put there because a lot of the people that get these deductions are contributed to Hillary, they’re contributing to Bush. They’re contributing to every candidate but Trump. Because I’m not taking any money. I’m self-funding. And these people want these deductions.
There will be people – we’re reducing taxes. But believe me, there will be people in the very upper eschelons that won’t be thrilled with this.
We’re taking away deductions and that’s one of the reasons we’re able to lower it.
I believe that the economy will do so well that even though they won’t be getting certain deductions which aren’t fair for them to be getting that they’ll end up doing better.
I think this is a common sense, well thought out tax proposal that’s going to trigger the economy, going to make everybody go back and really want to work.
It’s going to create tremendous numbers of jobs.
One of the other things that I’m coupling this with is if I become President, I’m going to renegotiate our trade deals. Because our trade deals are not sustainable by this country. Not sustainable.
We cannot continue to let our jobs go to all of the different countries. There’s not a country that we negotiate with that doesn’t make a better deal. Everybody.
We lose money with everything.
I’m also going to renegotiate some of our military costs. Because we protect South Korea, we protect Germany, we protect some of the wealthiest countries in the world – Saudi Arabia – we protect everybody. We protect everybody.
And we don’t get reimbursement. We lose on everything. We lose on everything.
So, we’re going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many other deals that’s going to get the costs down for running our country very significantly. I’m not showing a big number in that. But I believe that if I become President, those numbers are going to be massive.
As an example, Saudi Arabia. They make $1 billion a day. We protect them.
So we need help.
We’re losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 trillion.
I used to say $18 trillion for the last 6, 7 months; now it’s $19 trillion and it’s only going up.
In the NBC poll, I think we went from 26% to 29%. We’re going up very strongly in the polls. They don’t know what to do about it.
I’ve built a great company. You’ll see that in 60 Minutes last night. I built a great company. It’s a phenomenal company with very little debt, tremendous cash flow.
I’m funding my own campaign.
Guys like Rubio, I mean, he desperately needs money. Ask the car dealer in Florida. Ask the people that support him.
And a guy like Rubio and others – I don’t want to single him out; you’re singling him out – but they’re largely controlled by their donors, the special interests, and frankly more than anybody else, the lobbyists.
I’ve turned down millions of millions of dollars from lobbyists and special interests because it’s not the right thing. It’s just not right. And that seems to be resonating very strongly.
She says I have a habit when you get a bill, you’d call up and you negotiate. To me, that’s a compliment.
No, I want to take that thinking to the White House. I would bet you we could save 20% of our budget. I could even save more. But we could save a tremendous amount.
That has to be the attitude our country has. You can’t spend millions and millions of dollars on doing something that you can do for $2,000.
You know, when you look at costs, we just spent $1 million building a soccer field. Okay? A soccer field for our prisoners that happen to be in Guantanamo. Okay? I don’t like that. What do you need $1 million for? Level out the surface, let them play – if they had to play at all. Okay? What do you need to spend $1 million.
We just spent – it’s a story today. $1 million on a soccer field. How do you spend $1 million doing a soccer field? You have a level piece of land. Throw them a ball if they have to play soccer – if they have to play at all. Why are they playing soccer is my question.
And I think one of the reasons I am doing so well in the polls and one of the reasons I’m doing so well when it comes to the economy in all polls is that this is the thinking.
No, we’re lowering taxes very substantially. We’re simplifying. And we’re getting rid of deductions that are actually obselete that certain people want to keep for certain reasons.
So, no, that’s not true.
Scott Pelley interviewed me. I thought Scott was terrific. I mean, it was a tough interview but I thought he was very fair and I thought the piece was very good.
And again it’s called corporate inversion and in a lot of time corporations are moving out and they’re going to other countries, taking jobs.
And now, we have a really big problem because we have serious companies – very large, very prestigious companies as you know – obviously you know something about business. But we have major companies looking to move out of the United States.
You know, it used to be they’d move from New York to Florida. They’d move from New Jersey to Texas. Or whatever.
Now, they’re talking about moving from the United States to Ireland and to England and to other places, to Spain where they get treated differently and frankly better.
And they’re doing that for a number of reasons but one of the reasons – one of the big reasons – as you know is taxes. One of the other reasons is to get all of this cash that they’ve built up and they can’t get back into our country.
And when this money comes back into our country that everybody wants, it’s going to be put to work in our country, largely. It can go other places. But largely.
And I think it will be an amazing boon.
Now, here’s the other thing. They think it’s $2.5 trillion. I think it’s much more than that.
I actually think it’s going to be more money than that. And boy if it is, we have hit pay dirt.
But I will tell you. I’ve been honest. I’m the only one that’s honest about this thing.
I watched Romney. I watched all – “Oh, I pay so much tax. I pay so much tax.” I watched all politicians and they say “I pay – ”
I fight like hell to pay as little as possible. Can I say that? I’m not a politician.
I fight like hell always because it’s an expense.
And you know, I feel – I fight. I have the best lawyers and the best accountants and I fight. And I pay. But it’s an expense.
And frankly, I would feel differently if this country was spending the money wisely instead of throwing it out the drain.
Our country spends our money so stupidly and I will tell you that I could speak for myself I pay a lot of tax but I fight like hell to make it as low as possible. But I would feel a lot differently if our leadership was such that I respected the decisions.
All you have to do is look at a list of the things that our government is spending money on right now and you don’t feel so good about our country.
You know, right now, we have a false – 5.4%, 5.3%, 5.6% – every month it’s different.
It’s such a phony number. Because when people look and look and look and then they give up looking for a job, they’re taken off the roll. So the number isn’t reflective.
I’ve seen numbers of 24%. I actually saw a number of 42% unemployment. 42%.
And it could be because when you’re looking for a job and you go around and you look and you look and you find it, you want to work and you want to take care of your family and then you can’t get the job – you know what I’m talking about because you’re shaking your head – and you can’t get the job, essentially for statistically purposes you are considered employed.
So then I read every time it comes out I hear 5.3% unemployment. That is the biggest joke there is in this country.
That number is so false.
And you know, people ask “How come Trump is doing so well? And Carson and others? How come they’re doing -?” You know why they’re doing well? Because people are tired of political speak. They’re tired of that.
And the worst example of it – one of the worst example of it – is the phony unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate is probably 20%. But I will tell you you have some great economists that will tell you it’s 30%, 32%. And the highest I’ve heard so far is 42%.
There’s anger out there at the job picture.
Now, one of the things – with that being said, China, Japan, Mexico, Brazil, these countries are all taking our jobs like we’re a bunch of babies.
That will stop. People will treat us fairly if I become President.
We’re losing our jobs. We’re losing our base. We’re losing our manufacturing.
All of that will stop.
If a corporation gives out a bigger dividend, that’s great. Mr. Jones gets a bigger dividend, he’s going to have more money to spend in the economy. So that’s good.
I’ve done a great job. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people. I employ now thousands and thousands of people. I’ve done a good job.
But I wouldn’t say populist at all. I would say I’m a man of common sense.
I’m cutting taxes. I’m going to create a lot of jobs. I’m going to get rid of a tremendous amount of waste.
And I’ll tell you what. The waste that I get rid of – the waste that I get rid of – is going to have a huge impact and I’m not even putting that in my numbers so I think it’s going to be terrific.
Where are you from? England? I love them. Oh, what a beautiful accent.
No, I want to get the industry – we call it the automobile industry.
But I want to get the automobile industry to build factories here.
As you know, Ford is building $2.5 billion factory in Mexico.
Mexico also took a big plant out of Tennessee and Tennessee thought they were going to get it and they didn’t.
I want the motor companies, as you would say, or the automobile companies to build their plants in the United States.
I don’t want Nabisco leaving for Mexico or any place else.
I want these companies not to leave Chicago, not to leave Michigan, not to leave New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina and all of these places where they’re leaving and they’re going to other countries.
I want them to stay here and they will stay here and they’ll be so happy.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. It’s been a great honor. Thank you.
…I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought we’d do this well this fast. This has been so incredible. What’s happened all over. What’s happened in Iowa. It’s been really incredible.
We’ve had some amazing results and they continue to come in.
Got a little shake-up in Iowa. I don’t know what’s going on.
Somebody said “Are you going straight to New Hampshire?” Now, I love New Hampshire. We’ve got great numbers. 38 to 12. That’s good.
But we fell a little behind in Iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. And I come out and I was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds, we have the most enthusiastic crowds.
Everybody said and it’s very true. I mean, look at this. Somebody else would come, they’d have like 50 people and they wouldn’t need this room. Believe me.
But everybody said without question in every poll – this isn’t just here – that the people that are with Trump are with Trump. They don’t go anywhere. They’re staying. It’s true. I see it. I see it.
And we’ve seen it.
You know, a couple of times I say “Well, that could be the end.” Then they do something and I’m 10 points up. It’s the craziest thing, right? But we’ll take it.
But they say the people are with – we have the most loyal people by far. Everybody says it.
The other thing they say is for leadership, number one. Very important, right? Don’t you think? Leadership.
I mean, when leadership is number one – they say on the economy without question number one and by a lot.
So you know it’s great.
I thought I’d talk a little bit and I want to take some questions. You know, we can do a little question and answer. Right?
We have all these cameras going back here. And you know, it’s always tough when you’re on live television all the time.
Look, we have 10 topics. Right? How many topics? 10? How many different ways can you talk about the 10 topics?
The bottom line is we want results. We want to get it done. But when you’re on live television all the time all those people back there and the cameras are on and then you’re talking about immigration and you’re talking about the wall because we’re going to have a wall and we’re going to stop illegal immigration.
But we talk about trade and we talk about repealing Obamacare. And we talk about all the things that we talk about.
But you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different forms, in different ways and give different examples. But in the end, it’s really about results. Isn’t it? It’s really about results.
And you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many different ways.
I talk about industry. I talk about commerce. I talk about how we’re losing our jobs to all of these different countries. And I give different examples.
But it’s still going to be a certain number of subjects.
I talk about Second Amendment. I talk about Fourteenth Amendment. We talk about amendments.
You know, that Second Amendment, they want to take it away from you. They really want to do things and it’s not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. At  least with me it’s not going to happen. That I can tell you.
So I said today you know we’ll talk for a little while but I want to do some questions and answers. I want you people to excite me for a change. Is that okay? I want to be excited. And so we’re going to have some fun. We’re going to do that.
A few things – I want to bring up a few new subjects.
So, immigration, we’re going to be doing a very strong number. It’s killing us. It’s killing us. And it’s bad for the economy. It’s bad for – all of this illegal immigration.
And I have to tell you legal – you come in and we’re going to have a good time and you’re going to be there and you’re going to do great – and visas – maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and we’ll do something, we’re not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. We’re going to make our economy much, much stronger.
But we’re also going to get jobs for people that are here. People with us. We’re going to get jobs. We’re going to get jobs.
But the illegal immigration – you know, I did this and I made my determination – I took a deep breath. Because I’ll tell you what, it takes courage to say I’m going to run for president. It really does, especially in my case where I have a great business and I love my business. I love doing it. I may never even see it.
I mean, I own some of the great properties in the world. Doral in Miami. I may never see it again… Turnberry in Scotland, one of the greatest homes of the British Open and all of that. I may never see it again.
All of these incredible places that I have.
But more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, you’re putting yourself out there beyond anything that anybody’s done and it even takes courage for a politician to do it.
Now at some point some of these guys have to leave. Don’t we agree? It’s getting ridiculous.
Because like tomorrow night we’re having a debate, and I wish we had more time for the debate. Not in terms of three hours because who wants three hours? You know, I could stand up for 20 hours if I had to but who wants to watch that long?
Hillary’s debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and I was – oh – it was – you couldn’t watch it.
You have Hillary against a socialist/communist. And honestly, he’s not going to win. Just so you understand…He’s not going to win and neither is she…
Well, she’s being totally protected because in theory she shouldn’t even be allowed to run. She’s being protected.
It’s a tough game and it’s a nasty game but she’s being totally protected.
But she’s going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. O’Malley. So he’ll be out quickly, I guess. I don’t know what’s he doing. What do they do when they have zero? They have zero.
And I wouldn’t say it against our folks. But they’ve treated me – some of the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? Because they want to start controversy and they want to try pick up some points.
And you know what? I’m not going to even mention names. Usually I do. I love doing it. But everybody that’s hit me so far has gone down. They’ve gone down. And they’ve gone down bigly.
And a couple of the ones and zeroes – they’re the ones that hit the hardest. I mean, they’re like desperate people. But they hit.
One of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. That means less than zero. And I don’t understand. What does it mean? I assume it’s a typo but maybe not.
But when you look at the things that are happening with our country – the trade situation with not just China – I talk about China all the time because that’s the main abuser, that’s the biggest abuser. The numbers are astronomical. Almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Think of it – $400 billion a year.
And they send stuff over here but we can’t send stuff over there. They tax us. Big tax.
A friend of mine can’t get stuff over there. The tax is so big. Big tax.
Somebody bought an airplane in China here. Can’t get it over there. Spoiled guy. Rich guy. Bought a beautiful plane. Can’t get it over there because the tax is so massive that he’s now selling in this country because China won’t let him have the plane and he has to pay a tax.
I won’t even tell you what the tax is. It’s so astronomical that I don’t even believe them myself. So I’m not going to say it because those guys will say “Well, he was wrong.” All I can tell you is it’s a massive tax. Like you don’t buy planes here because if you do, you won’t be able to get them back in.
And here, we accept all of their products.
So we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with China.
We have a $70 billion trade imbalance with Japan.
We have a – you know, with all that’s going on in the South China Sea and you look where we have a destroyer – a relatively small ship – over there, I don’t know if I’d want to be the captain of that ship right now. But they’re being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad things can happen.
But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because they’re smarter, sharper, more cunning.
The leaders of Mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companies.
Even Nabisco – my Oreos – they’re taking Nabisco. Right? I’m never eating Oreos. I tell it all the time. They had some Oreos before on the plane and I said I don’t want to touch them. Bring them back. I yelled out to bring them back.
But I’m not happy. They’re leaving Chicago and they’re moving their big plant to Mexico.
So when you see this happening, we have to stop it.
And I’m not going to beat around the bush and “Oh, let’s talk and let’s be nice and let’s say – “ Nobody can do it like I do it. Nobody. Honestly, nobody.
We can – I’m not saying I’m perfect because I’m not perfect. Nobody’s perfect…
Now, nobody’s perfect. But I’ll tell you when it comes to that stuff I’m really – there’s nobody better.
Carl Icahn endorsed me the other day. He’s one of the great traders, one of the great dealmakers. He says Trump, Trump. And he’s not somebody that just do it. He wants somebody that knows what they’re doing. He understand.
You talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going on.
Corporate inversions. You know, many of the companies in this country have trillions of dollars cumulatively. They think $2.5 trillion overseas right now. They can’t get it in.
And everybody agrees that we should bring it in. The Democrats and the Republicans. They’ve agreed for years. They can’t make a deal because they have no leader.
It’s not like “Oh gee, we disagree on Obamacare. Or we disagree on something else.”
Although I must tell you many of the Democrats that I speak to because I’m friendly with all of them. I’m friendly with like Republicans. I get a long with everybody.
You know, everybody says “Oh, you won’t be a unifier”. I’ll be the greatest unifier of all. Why is Obama a unifier?
But I will tell you many of the Democrats who voted for Obamacare would never have done it now and were lied to 28 times. Right? “You can keep your doctor, keep your plan, keep your this, everything’s going to be great.” Turned out to be a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they wouldn’t have done it.
But when you look at what’s happening with corporations and the highest tax – we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country – but they have trillions of dollars overseas. And these are great companies in many cases. They have thousands of employees. They can’t get their money back.
And the reason is bureaucracy. It’s very hard.
And also big reason the tax is too high. They don’t want to bring $1 million back and pay $300,000 or $350,000 tax. They’d rather leave it over there.
And if they bring it back, they’ll be using it to invest in our country. I mean, a lot of good things will happen.
I happen to believe it’s more than $2.5 trillion.
But here’s the thing and I use it because it’s so incredible. Here’s the thing. It’s not controversial. It’s not like you have the Republicans here and you have – everybody agrees. They’ve agreed you know that for 2.5, 3 years. They can’t make a deal.
And now what’s happening and this will be the next great story is companies are leaving the United States – two reasons – lower taxes but also to get their money. They’ve got billions of dollars overseas. They’re leaving our country in order to get their money and in order to pay lower tax.
And you’re talking about one company I know of – I don’t know how much they’ve written about it – but you’re talking about 6,000 jobs just one company. You’re talking about potentially thousands of companies.
And I say it, in the old days, they’d leave New York. People would move down and companies would move down to Florida or they’d move to Texas or they’d leave New Jersey, where taxes are quite high, and they’d move to another location. Right? Now, they leave our country and they go to other countries. That’s what’s happened.
In the world of the Internet and the world of very fast jets, it’s a different world out there.
And there’s no loyalty. They’re paid a lot of money to make a lot of money for their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign; they’d like to move back to these countries.
They bring in executives that are from Ireland, from other places. And they don’t mind. They don’t have loyalty to the United States.
So my plan, my tax plan, is something I’m very proud of. We’re going to solve corporate inversion.
I’ll tell you what, we will have that money back – if I get elected president, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. Nobody else will be able to do it. Nobody.
Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them don’t even know about it. It’s not their wheelhouse. Okay? It’s not their thing. It’s not their thing.
Their thing is getting re-elected. That’s what they’re good at. They get re-elected. And they make promises and they’re all talk and they’re no action. And the same things happen with these politicians. It’s always the same.
So we have so many different things and what I’ve done with our tax plan, which something I’m very proud of, we’ve brought it down to a few groups.
Because right now, you have to go out – people who aren’t doing well go out and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. They’ll pay $500, $1,000 because it’s so complicated.
And we’re going to make it nice and simple.
And we’re getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of rich hedge fund guys love. But we’re getting rid of it. They don’t love me so much anymore. But I don’t care.
And we’re getting rid of a lot of things.
So we’re going to have a nice simple tax return.
Somebody said “Oh, why isn’t everybody paying?”
You know, 40% – a big percentage – will not pay any tax at all. People that are doing badly.
They said – well, I won’t use the candidates’ name because I don’t want to insult any candidate when they can’t defend themselves. They said “We want everybody to pay at least something.” And I said, “I agree.”
Here’s the problem. From the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of bureaucracy, you’re talking about millions and millions of returns. You’re talking about building the IRS even bigger and it’s a monster. And I could cut it down way down. And the money that you’re talking about is far less than the administrative costs.
So I said, “I agree. Except for one thing from a practical standpoint, it’s too much. Most of these people aren’t paying anyway.”
What I want to do is bring our jobs back from China, bring our jobs back from Mexico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with Japan.
I was in Los Angeles. Ships – the biggest ships you’ve ever seen. Cars are pouring off into this country. Made in Japan. We give them practically nothing.
The balance is so bad. The imbalance is so bad. And then we have all the strikes.
See, what our people don’t know and only somebody that wrote “The Art of the Deal” or does this stuff. It’s natural. It’s like a great athlete. Like a Jack Nicklaus. He was always able to sink that putt. Right? You know, he’s just better. And you have athletes – very few – but there are some people that have a certain ability.
A lot of people don’t even know we have all the power. We have all the power in China.
You know, we owe right now China and Japan equally $1.5 – think of this – trillion. $1.5 trillion. Think of this. They take our business and in the case of Japan, mostly cars. But they take our business. They take our jobs. Factories close down all over the place. And we owe them money. Right? It’s a magic act. For them not for us. For us it’s a horror show.
It’s going to end. It’s going to end.
And people like Carl Icahn and the people like the best negotiators – I know the best negotiators in the world. Some I think are horrible people. I’ll be honest with you. I don’t care. Do you care if they’re horrible people? Who cares?
Now, Carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but he’s a brilliant negotiator and a tough cookie and he’s built a fortune. He doesn’t want money. He doesn’t want to say, “Oh, give me $200,000 a year in government money.” He wants to do it. He’s proud to do it. He wants to help the country. And it’s so easy for him.
For instance, if I say “Carl, do me a favor. The trade deal we have with China is so unfair we’re losing $400 billion a year. Carl, do me a favor. Make it fair.” I don’t have to give him a big speech. I don’t have to give him a big speech.
I mean, I can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things will straighten out. I mean, things will straighten out and it’s going to be our benefit.
But think of it, if we’re losing that kind of money – that imbalance. It’s an imbalance. Some people will say “That’s not really a loss.” It is a loss. If we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or even if we lost $100 billion a year, that’s a lot of money. Believe me, I couldn’t sleep.
If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?
But suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do you know what that means to this country? Do you know the kind of money you’re talking about? Then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would happen. Lots of great things would happen.
And maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe they’ll have 75% and maybe they’ll like them better. Maybe they’ll be better. And they’ll be manufactured here.
Whenever I order television sets, I ordered thousands and thousands of television sets a year for different jobs. And whenever I order them, they all come from South Korea. They make all the television – other than Sony but Sony has sort of lost its way a little bit. Sony is Japan.
But South Korea – LG, Samsung. I don’t get bids from American. I’d love to. I’d love to.
George Will said there’s a company in South Carolina that makes television. I said where are they? I’d like to have a good name too by the way. It’s important. You know, when somebody’s paying you a fortune for a hotel room, it’s nice to see a good name. Right? Do we agree?
Well, it’s a company in South Carolina but they don’t make them there; they assemble them. They’ll order parts that come in and they’ll assemble them. But much different.
But I’d love it if we made them.
But you take South Korea. We defend South Korea for essentially nothing. You have the maniac over in North Korea that nobody ever talks about by the way. Now, he really has nuclear weapons and we don’t talk about him.
We made the worst deal ever made with Iran. Right? The worst.
These are the people that represent – these people are incompetent. Or stupid. Somebody said, “You shouldn’t say stupid. It’s not nice.” But it’s true. They’re stupid. I think. I mean, I think. Unless I don’t know is there something going on that we don’t know about?
Think of it. Point after point, we lost. We lost everything. We’ve given them $150 billion. Hard to believe. They don’t have to develop – I was telling somebody they don’t have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it.
What the hell why should they develop it? They can buy it. And now all of a sudden they’re going into Syria. They got so much money. They’re a terrorist state. They’re going into all of these different places. We’re fighting them in Yemen and yet we’re making a deal with them.
So why don’t you say “Hey, Yemen out”? Our prisoners – I want them back. I want them back. I don’t want them over there. I want them back.
And all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. I’m the right messenger. You know, I’ve gotten to a point where I have to be braggadocious. It’s terrible. Right? Because I can’t be so nice and say “We can all do a wonderful job”. People can’t do those kind of stuff.
For instance, the wall. I said, I guarantee you that we’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be a real wall. We’re going to have people come through and they’re going to come through legally. Or they’re going to come through with visas, which is a safe way, if we need it.
And we want people to come through. I want people to come through. I don’t want to say no.
But we have at least 11 million – you know, the scary thing is nobody has any idea how many. You know, we’ve been hearing that number for years. You know, like 11 million. We have no idea. I spoke to one of the top people. They have no idea. Might be 5 million. Might also be 32 million. Could be 50 [million]…
But we have to get them out. We have to – look, it’s harsh.
Dwight Eisenhower – we all like Dwight. Right? Remember the expression. Right?
I go remember he got elected – “I like Ike”. How could he be bad? All right? And I think he was a nicer general than MacArthur and Patton. And I like Ike as a president but I love Patton and I love General MacArthur. I love them. And we’re going to find ourselves a Patton and we’re going to find ourselves because we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. We’re going to find ourselves a Patton…But we’re going to find a Patton and we’re going to find a MacArthur. And I’m really good at that. We’re going to find great people.
And I’ve told this story where I watched these generals go on television – they shouldn’t be on television. They shouldn’t be talking. You know? They shouldn’t be talking. They should be doing.
And they asked a certain general, I’m not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here’s general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said what’s he doing on television? And he’s saying “Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out.”
By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said “Take the oil”? Always take the oil! They’re being funded by the oil that I said take.
I don’t want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didn’t do it.
We shouldn’t have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Shouldn’t have been there.
We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it.
But we were there. Then Obama announces because he’s so predictable “We are leaving on a certain date in a year.”
Right? I couldn’t believe. I was sitting there thinking “Did he really say that?”
He said “We will have all troops out by a certain date.” Right? Did he say that?
I said “No, no, tell me please.”
…Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. They think I’ll be the best in the military because they say I – you know, I always say I’ll be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will. But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that.
But you know what I’ll be? I’ll be the great at the military. I’ll be so good. And I’ll know when – and I’ll build our military so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobody’s going to mess around. We’re never going to have to use it. We’re never going to have to use it.
And I’m going to take care of our vets. Believe me, they’re our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. I’m going to take care of our vets.
So go back. So the world is unpredictable.
I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy – oh, I beat him so badly. Aye, it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, it was like a picture. That’s my own problem. I guess. But to me it’s like a painting when you could do something like that.
So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they don’t call this guy. They ended up calling this guy “What do you think about Trump?” And he said but in a respectful way, he said “He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We don’t know what the hell he was going to do.” That’s a positive. That’s a positive.
I mean, if you’re a poker player and you’re predictable, you’re not going home with much money. Okay?
But it was really – I said, “That’s not nice what he said.” First, I said “That’s not nice. I’m unpredictable.” Then I said, “Wait a minute. He meant that as a compliment.” And I called him. I said, “What did you mean by that?” He said “I think that’s the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you out. You came at us from 15 different angles.”
So with Obama, when he announces that we’re leaving Iraq on a certain date, we shouldn’t have been there but once you announced the bad guys – you know how they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Because the bad guys all moved back. They said, “Hey, what do we have to get killed for?” I mean, these people don’t mind being killed, can you believe it? But they said “If we don’t have to, let’s not.” So they moved back.
And they said, “Hey, they’re leaving in -“ What was the date? Do you remember the date? Specific date to the day. “We will have all troops out. I’m a great president.”
So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, “Oh, you’re leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Let’s go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have to do because if we do well maybe he’ll change his mind and stay. So let’s let him think he has this great victory with the surge.” Right? “The surge worked!”
What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, “Let’s wait.”
Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. That’s what happened. That was the surge.
Everybody talk so much – “Oh, the surge was so great.” The surge was great because everybody knew – they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush.
I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled back and they said, “Let’s get them out.” Everybody wanted to leave.
Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or I might not. I won’t even say.
People say, “Mr. Trump, what’s your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack them? Where?
I say “You know, I don’t want to talk – I have a real chance of winning. I don’t want to tell you what my attitude. I want them to guess. I don’t really want to tell you.”
I mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. Let’s face it. Hey, look at our leadership, it’s got flaws.
But you know the one bad thing? When I gave that answer, they say – although some people – I see it here – some people say “We love that. We love that.” But when I give that answer, some people say “Oh, Trump doesn’t know. He doesn’t know. He didn’t give an answer as to exactly what he’s going to do. Exactly what he’s going to do.”
And I know exactly what I’m going to do and eventually after I was asked the question by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the way, I said, “You know, here’s the problem. If I don’t give the answer, I’m not going to win because they write so incredibly negatively. So if I don’t give the answer, I’m not going to win.” They’re going to say “Trump wouldn’t give us the answer.”
They don’t know it’s unpredictability. They don’t know it’s strategy.
And I said for a period of time like a month, I said “I don’t want to tell you because I actually have a chance because from the time I announced, I’ve been on the top of the polls, almost at the top. You know, we’re doing well.”
Iowa, will you get your numbers up please? Would you get these numbers up? I promise you I would do such a good job.
First of all, I am a great Christian and I am. I am. Remember that.
And I do well with the evangelicals. But the evangelicals left me down a little bit just last month. I don’t know what I did.
But I am a great Christian. I’m a believer and I believe in the Bible. And I even brought my Bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, Mary, and with the address and the date – I won’t tell you what date it was because possibly you’d think I’m younger than that. But she didn’t want anybody taking my Bible because that was very important to her.
So cute. She has the address, has the date. But I said to myself, “You know – “
By the way, before I forget, will you get the numbers up Iowa please? This is ridiculous. I mean, what is my competition? In all fairness, in all fairness, what is my competition?
Do you think these guys – I’m not going to say Carson – I’m not going to say Rubio, who really is way down – I mean, I am second. It’s not like it’s terrible. But I don’t like being second. Second is terrible to me.
But do you think that Ben is going to go to China? These guys are fierce. Like they’d come into your office. I’ve made many deals with China. I’ve had great victories in terms of deals with China. They come into your office. There’s no “Hello. How are you? It’s a wonderful day.” They come in – “We want deal.” There’s no games. I do this for a living. I’m really good at it, folks. Really good.
And you know, when you talk about energy, I’ll tell you one thing, everybody agrees – oh, do I have energy. Oh. I toss and turn thinking about how I’m going to make the best deal for you folks. I’ll be tossing and turning. I will be tossing and turning. You’re going to have so many deals that is so good for you. We’re going to have numbers are going to be so good.
I always joke you may get tired of them but then I always take that back because nobody gets tired of winning.
We don’t win anymore. You know, think about it. Do we win at all? Ever?
We lose with the military. ISIS beats us. Everybody.
We lose with trade.
When are we going to come back and say, “We beat China” on a deal? When are we going to come back, “We beat Japan”?
Do you know that everybody said “Oh, Japan. They have so power over us. They have so much power because we owe them $1.5 trillion and they send all those cars.”
They have no power. If we ever say, “Listen, if you’re not going to treat us fairly, we don’t want your cars anymore”, they’d go out of business, folks, they’re gone.
Same thing with China. China is not even doing that well. But they just lowered, they just devalued their currency. The biggest in two decades. And the reason they did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that they felt, “Oh wow, we can get away with this and it’s going to make it impossible.”
Did you see the results yesterday of Caterpillar Tractor? Horrible. Because they’re not getting stuff out because everybody – Japan and China in particular – is devaluing their currency. That’s their number one weapon. And the stupid trade deal that we’re making doesn’t even cover it. That’s their number one weapon and the trade that we’re making doesn’t cover it.
So I only say this and you know what? People might say “It’s terrible. He’s a terrible person, a terrible human being. But I’m going to vote for him anyways.” Okay, that’s fine. I’m actually a nice person.
I always say this – nobody can do this stuff better than me. And I know all the guys I’m running against. They’re wonderful people. Some of them I really like. But who cares?
I was talking to one of the candidates the other day. I was talking about corporate inversions and they didn’t even know what the hell I was talking. They had no idea. It’s not their thing.
And unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unless we make great trade deals, we’re being eaten alive.
That’s why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in our workforce that aren’t working. Our real unemployment rate is probably 30%. It’s not 5.3%. That was done for politicians so they’d look good. It’s not 5.3%. How can you have 5.3% when you have 100 million people?
You look for a job. If you’re a young guy, that handsome young guy with the red hair, right there…but if he comes out and he goes into the workforce and he looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he can’t get a job and when he gives up because at some point after months you give up, they essentially consider you employed. It’s the most ridiculous thing.
We have a tremendous – tens of millions of people in that position. They can’t find jobs. They’re good people. They want to work. They can’t. But it’s not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good.
So let me just before we talk some questions, I’m going to talk about something I’ve never really talked about it onstage but we should talk about it. It’s called Super PACs.
It’s one of the great scams of all time. It’s one of the great scams.
So we sent out – I think I had – and it’s not me. People set them up. And I don’t know. Maybe they’re setting up for my benefit.
Let’s take me. A guy sees me, likes me, sets up a Super PAC. I don’t talk to him. I don’t do anything.
I think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. We don’t even know. They’re all over the place. Trump, Trump – one of them called The Art of the Deal PAC after the book.
They have all these PACs. And the money comes in. And what do they do with the money? I don’t know.
And we aren’t supposed to call them or anything. Okay.
So, we wrote a letter – a legal letter – to I think either 9 or 11 last week saying we don’t want their money, send it back because again, what do they do with it? If some guy that’s having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million sitting in a Super PAC, do you think he’s going to take ads for Trump? Maybe and maybe not.
So we sent them a – it’s a scam, Super PACs, a scam. It’s a disgrace that we have. A disgrace.
And I’ll tell you I read a number with, as an example, with Ben. Ben is paying 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. So when you read he has all this money, he’s paying a lot of money and that’s not reflected yet. So when you hear they raised $20 million, they’re paying – now think of it, who pays – the number I actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check them so I’m telling you it may be off but you all know it’s a lot.
I think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. Think of it. To raise the money, they take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed to be. Somebody is making a fortune.
I know in Romney’s campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and millions of dollars. Millions. They became rich raising money. It’s better than being a real estate broker.
For the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of the money they raise. It’s a scam. It’s a scam.
Now, in Ben’s case, his Super PAC is running Iowa. And let me tell you, the people that are running that Super PAC, even if it comes in small donations, those are the real bosses. Those are the bosses.
In the case of Jeb Bush, you’re not supposed to deal with these Super PACs. Okay? So, it was in the Wall Street Journal the other day. He has a Super PAC fundraiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroom. Did you read that? Two ballrooms. One here, one here, right next to each other by coincidence, of course. They’re not supposed to be coordination. They’re not supposed to be talking. They’re right next to each other. And that’s nothing compared to what some are doing.
It’s a scam and it should be stopped. And it’s unfair to somebody like me that is spending my own money.
And what happened and I haven’t talked about this before but I’m seeing what’s going on. It’s horrible what’s going on. What happened is the last time they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, they called it the wall.
And this is a wall too. Won’t be as good as the one I’m going to build but it’s a wall.
But it was a wall and they didn’t deal.
I mean, even though like Bush has a friend of his running his Super PAC, I’m sure they never talk. I’m sure. What do you think the chances are that they talk? 100% or 99%? 100%. I’d say 100%. I’d say 100%. Only a foolish person would say 99%. But whatever.
They’re not supposed to. But they put a friend in there. They put other people in there. They put whoever. And that’s the way it works.
And in some cases, I hear in Ben’s case, I hear in other cases, they’re literally running.
I mean, had Walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the Super PAC but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out this is what they’re all doing. That’s why he’s out of the race because he couldn’t figure it out.
The whole thing with Super PACs is a horrible, horrible scam. So I sent letters last week to as many as we could find. They’re all over the place. We want you to close the Super PAC. We want nothing to do with it. We don’t want to get advertisements. We don’t want any of the money. Go home and ideally give the money back. They don’t even have to give the money back from what I understand. They can keep it. They’ll probably if they actually raised money for me, they’ll say “What a horrible thing he just said. I think we’re going to support somebody else.” They could do that.
But the Super PACs have total control over the people running for office. Total. Nothing over me. Nothing.
I feel it’s very unfair. I feel it’s a very unfair situation.
Now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everything…But what are they doing with this whole thing?
And I think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest.
But the Super PACs are controlling your candidates – some more than others. Some are unbelievable.
And what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. When you read that Ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of the consultants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. You’ll be amazed. I mean, it’s so little.
Bush, it’s the same thing.
And I’ll go over – there are other names. I know every one of them. But it’s a horrible thing that’s taking place.
And again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. Now, they’re not even going through the motions. They’re not even going through.
And just remember when I have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this country so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and their factories here and they do all of the things here, when I have to do that, you know, John Deere, I paid them tens of millions of dollars. You can even check. I said to John Deere, “I want an endorsement.” I don’t know if they’ll give me an endorsement. I’ll tell you if they don’t they’re not so smart. I guarantee no other person gave John Deere – I mean, I bought probably more than $10 million worth of John Deere equipments. I love it. You know why? Iowa. Iowa. I love it. I love it.
When we can. By the way, it’s a great company. It’s a great company. But I buy a lot of stuff from John Deere because I have a lot of big developments that really require John Deere type equipment. I don’t have to buy it from them. I could buy it from others. But I want to steer it to them when I can.
But we have to do something to clean up this political mess because it’s crooked stuff. It’s crooked stuff. And it’s got to stop.
And it’s very unfair to people who go out and do it the way you’re supposed to do it, including me. I think I’m the only one that’s self-funding. I’m the only one putting up my own money, other than – I know it’s precious – people write in to DonaldJTrump.com or whatever and they send me checks like $20. I keep saying the woman for $7.50, $50, $100. I don’t want their money. But if you send it back it’s totally insulting.
I mean, they always write letters too. They write these beautiful letters – “Mr. Trump, I can’t afford much and I know you don’t need it but I’m sending $50 because that’s so important what you’re saying about the country.” It’s beautiful.
I mean, I’ve seen such beautiful letters. And if I send it back, there’s no letter I can write that’s not going to be insulting to those people, really. “Dear Mr. So and So or Mrs. So and So, I don’t need your money and thanks a lot but we’re going to do it ourselves.” If I got that back, I’d say “Who the hell does he think he is?”
So we take that and it’s something that I think is important.
So I always preface it by saying I don’t consider that funding but I’m self-funding my campaign and I’m getting ready to put up millions, millions.
And something I’m very proud of that I think it’s great and it’s you know really great, it hasn’t gotten very much publicity, hasn’t gotten much publicity, but I have spent less money than any other candidate. Okay? By far. I think. I don’t know, probably a couple of guys that have nothing so they just go around…But I was told that I spend less. And I have the best results because in most polls I’m number one.
Now, until Iowa came along, I said “every poll”, and then Iowa – what the hell are you people doing to me? You know? You know?
I’m telling you. They said, “Why don’t you skip Iowa?” They told me that. Everybody said “Skip Iowa”. All of the political geniuses.
A man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. He’s actually a great reporter. Of course, if he writes a bad story, I won’t say that. But he is. He’s a great reporter.
And he said, “Would you ever think of maybe skipping Iowa going right to New Hampshire? And then you’d go to South Carolina” where I’m leading by massive – yeah, you’ve got to see the rallies there. They’re incredible.
“But you’d go to New Hampshire. You’d go to South Carolina. You go to Nevada. You go to the SCC.”
I said I can’t do that because I have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from Iowa that I think we’re going to win. I really do. I believe it. I believe it.
And I don’t want to skip Iowa. I think we’re going to do well. I think we’re going to do great with evangelicals. I think a lot of things are going to come out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our opponents, honestly, and I think I’m going to do great with the evangelicals because I am the real deal. I will tell you that. I’m the real deal.
So I told these political pros, you know, I hate to say it but the last long number of elections on the Republican circuit, the person that won Iowa did not get the nomination. Okay? I want to take away some of your muster. You understand that.
So could we do – and please do me a favor? Let me win Iowa. And then I’m going to win, I’m telling you we’re going to win New Hampshire, and we’re going to win South Carolina.
A great poll just came out on North Carolina just a little while. A PPP poll. It was great. Some of you saw that. But great poll.
But we’re going to go on and we’re going to win. We’re going to win.
And actually, one of the pundits – because you have some smart pundits and some very, very dumb pundits. A lot of pundits said “He’ll never run. He’s not going to run.” They’re still trying to recover.
But one of the very smart one says “If Trump wins Iowa, it’s over.” It’s interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great.
And I thought it was good here. Come on. Okay, so that’s the end of that.
But I want to tell you, will you – I refuse to say “Get your asses in gear.” I will not say that. I will not say it. I will not say it because I don’t want to use anything that’s even a little bit off.
So will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1stand vote and give us a victory?
And if I win Iowa, we’re going to run the whole table and we are going to make such great deals and we’re going to have such a great military and we’re going to take care of our health care without that crazy Obamacare that’s a nightmare.
So, I’m sticking with you people. I’m going to spend money here. I have a great team over here. And I will tell you I’m going to spend a lot of time here and I really want to win Iowa and I think we should and it’s so important. And you know, it’s about time that Iowa could have a victory and let that person go onto a total victory. Okay? Not like over the last – right?
So, I love you all. I mean, we’re having fun. But I love you all. But I do mean it. I’m going to stay here. We’re going to work really hard.
When I heard the poll today, they said “What are you going to do?” I said, “I’m going to work harder in Iowa.” I’m not leaving Iowa. I’m not leaving Iowa.
Now, if I lose Iowa, I will never speak to you people again. That I can tell you.
Okay, let’s do a couple of questions. Right? Come on.
Now, you look like you’re doing pretty well in all fairness. But still, we have 50 million. We have 46 million people and they’re getting food stamps. 46 million. Think of it. You know, we talk about how well we’re doing.
So we have 50 million – almost 50 million each between poverty, food stamps, and it’s got to end.
One of the problems – we don’t have enough jobs in this country. It’s very simple. You know, it’s so simple when you think about it.
Our jobs have been taken away.
And I’ll tell you what else, middle income folks – their salaries haven’t gone up in 12 years. People are making less wages now than they were 12 years ago. And other things have gone up. So they’re really doing much worse than they were doing 12 years ago.
But that’s an amazing stat.
But people – one of the reasons they say I’m doing so well because I let people know we’re going to bring jobs back. We’re going to bring industry and plants. We’re going to bring it all back and nobody else can say that. We’re going to bring it back because a lot of the folks in this room are doing worse than they were 12 years ago and they’re working.
Then the other thing, you have a lot of part-time jobs. I have some people that I know very well and they’ve had a job for 20 years at the same place. All of a sudden they’re working part-time because of Obamacare because from an accounting standpoint, it just works better. They love the owners, the stores and things. They love the owners; they think the owners are great. But the owners are forced to make part-time jobs; they have part-time jobs. They work all their life. They have a wonderful company that they’re working for, and now all of a sudden they’re cut into part-time jobs because of Obamacare because of the rulings of Obamacare. And you all know what I’m talking about.
So they end up being part-time workers and they don’t want to be part-time workers. They don’t even like the psychology of being called a part-time worker. And we’re not going to have that stuff anymore. We’re not going to have it any more.
We’re going to have real jobs and the numbers are going to go up. Believe me. The numbers are right now worse than 12 years ago and that’s a shame.
I hear only – I just hear terrible. And we’re going to solve that problem. You know, it can be solved.
The waits now for the VA are longer than they’ve ever been…The waits now are worse than they’ve ever been. Thousands of people dying waiting for a doctor. Okay, dying.
And you find the same thing, you say. You have to use your own because they won’t do anything.
So we’re going to take care of our vets and we’re going to take care of the VA and it’s going to be one of the things we’re going to be releasing pretty soon.
But one of the things we’re going to do with the VA, we have a lot of hospitals that aren’t doing any business. We have a lot of private doctors that could do more business.
We’re losing a lot of our doctors because of Obamacare. They’re retiring. They’re leaving.
One of them – a friend of mine – said “I have more nurses working for me now more than before but I have more accountants” and the end result is a disaster; he’s getting out of the business. He’s got nurses but he’s got more accountants than he has nurses because the paperwork is so crazy.
So one of the things we’re going to do is if Todd or if you or if somebody has problems because of the wait – because the waits are unbelievable – 5, 6, 7 days sometimes. They’re going to a private doctor. They’re going to go to a private hospital. Or a public hospital that’s in the area. And we’re going to pay for that and it’s going to cost less money – it’s going to cost less money than the system we have now – and you’re going to end up getting much better care. It’s going to cost less and you’re going to get better care…
And Hillary should have approved it.
You know, Hillary wanted to approve it but she’s been dragged so far left, that’s she’s – forget it. It’s a disaster.
So I would approve it.
But with that being said, I may want to make a better deal because you know what? We’re bringing oil from Canada. Right? I may say, I want 10%. We’re going to approve it but I want 10%, 15%.
Because the truth is that the Keystone Pipeline was better a while ago than it is now because we have so much because of new technology, we have so much energy underneath our own feet with the fracking and all of the other things that have emerged over the last five years, we have so much energy. And it’s great stuff.
We have really great quality, higher than Canada. You know, they have the tar sands, which is a problem for them. Very expensive to get it out.
We have great stuff. So I would approve it because I love the jobs of building it. I love the jobs of building it.
But I may just say, maybe we should get 10%, 15%, maybe 20% as that oil flows through our land. You know, maybe we should do that.
So I’m going to look into that. But when I approve it – I’ll tell you what, when I approve it, it’ll be a great deal for the United States. It won’t be like – because right now, what we’re doing is we’re approving it, we’re not really getting anything. They’re putting it underground, and that’s actually good environmentally. Better than having trucks going down the road and everything else. That’s good environmentally. But we’re not getting – we’re not getting – anything much for it.
When I get finished with the Keystone, they’ll be happy and we’ll be happy. Okay?
And you are bringing up a point that I’ve heard before. We’re going to look at a lot of different things.
But we’re going to save Social Security, we’re going to save Medicare and that’s the way it is. Okay? We’re not abolishing like other people.
And Dwight Eisenhower is going to say he moved 1.5 million in the 1950s, early 1950s, moved them out.
We have tremendous illegal immigration problems. Dwight Eisenhower, nice guy, he moved 1.5 million people out of the United States. And you know what happened? He moved them right across the border and they came back and they moved them again and they came back. They moved them a third time, they came right back.
And then you know they were tougher in those days. They moved them all the way south – all the way south – and they didn’t come back.
Now, we have to do it. We have no choice. We either have a country or we don’t.
And I want them to come back. But I want them to come back with papers. I want them to come back legally. I want them to come back. The good ones. The good ones. But only the good ones.
We got some bad ones. Remember the heat I took with illegal immigration? Remember that heat? For two weeks. Rush Limbaugh said “He has received more incoming than any human being I’ve ever seen.” And then he double-downed…
You know what? I took a lot of heat and then you had Kate in San Francisco, killed, shot in the back and so many others. And people started looking.
And let me tell you, we have some wonderful people over here and they’re here illegally but they’re wonderful people. Okay? And we’ll try to get them back real soon and we’ll do it through a legal process.
But we also have some really bad gang members. You know, some of the gangs in LA. They’re made up of illegal immigrants.
And we have unbelievable police forces that don’t get the respect that they should get. They don’t get it. I mean, what they go through, it’s unbelievable. They’re afraid to talk to anybody. They don’t want to lose their jobs. They don’t want to lose their pensions. They can’t talk.
Now, let me just tell you something. You can always have bad apples. In this room, we have a couple of bad apples. Okay? I don’t know who they are or where they are but you do. Probably mostly back there in the press.
But the police do an unbelievable job. And they know the gangs. You go to LA the LA cops. You got Chicago, the Chicago cops. These people are amazing people if they would be allowed to do their jobs. But they’re not allowed to do their jobs.
And we’re going to get the bad ones out of here so fast and they’re not coming back and I don’t want to put them in our jails because I don’t want to subsidize these various countries where they come from for the next 45 years. I don’t want them in our jails. We have hundreds of thousands right now in our jails. I don’t want them in our jails.
I heard a couple of these candidates saying, “Well, they’re – “ They’re such babies.
But you know what? They’re talking about putting them in jail. Well, I don’t want them. Our jails are over-brimming. I want to use our jails for people that are supposed to be there. Okay? And I don’t want to put these really bad dudes – I mean, they are bad – I don’t want to have to pay for them for the next 45 years. Okay?
And we’re going to deal very humanely with the good people and they are mostly good people. But we’ve got some real bad ones and they’re out of here. Your head will spin probably.
Somebody said the other day, “What’s the first thing you’re going to do?” Well, we’re going to work immediately on repealing Obamacare.
You know, the one good thing about executive orders? The one good thing? You know, Obama signed an executive order where everybody just come in. Come in.
We have great border patrol people. I got to know them a couple of months ago when I went down to Texas to the border. They’re great people. They’re not allowed to do their job. They stand there and watch people walk right in front of them smiling at them. They want to do their job; they’re not allowed to.
So the executive order that President Obama signed, the one good thing about an executive order, in the first minute in office, I will counter-sign and revoke those executive orders. They’ll be revoked. The only good thing.
It’s actually the only good thing about an executive order is that a new president can just do a signature and that’s the end of that.
So we’re going to clean up our border. We’re going to make it fantastic. We’re going to be proud to be a country again and a lot of good things are going to happen.
Israel feels so left alone and I know BiBi and a lot of my friends are from Israel and they feel so left out.
And so many people say, you know, I have so many Jewish friends where they say why did I support Obama? I think he’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to Israel. And we will support Israel beyond anything they ever have before. Okay?
That’s an easy one. That’s the easiest question of the night!
We are going to stop drugs.
Look, I told you before – Mexico – $45 to $50 billion. That’s not including the drugs. The drugs that are coming across the border are beyond belief.
Did you see the picture last week where they had a little wall this big and they built a ramp for trucks to go over it with trucks? Did you see the picture? They think we’re playing games.
And Mexico is not helping us. Mexico is not helping.
Do you know if you want to become a citizen of Mexico – I love the Mexican people. I have many Mexican people and Hispanics working for me. In Nevada, I’m number one. I’m rated number one in the polls with the Hispanics. Everyone’s shocked.
Because the Hispanics that are here legally, those people they want me, they know I’m going to bring jobs and everything else. They don’t want people pouring in.
But I will tell you Mexico has got to help us.
You know, if you want to become a citizen of Mexico…do you know it’s one of the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of? And yet, people pour right through into us, into us. They call us the dumb Americans. That’s what they call us because of our leaders. They call us the dumb Americans.
If you want to become a citizen of Mexico, you could take the best person in this room, the most qualified, you’re not going to do it. They don’t do that.
And if you’re there illegally and if you overstay your bound? You’re not going to be there illegally. But if you have a pass for two weeks and you overstay your bound, they have cops waiting for you. They have police that say, “You know you have one day left.” I hear it’s unbelievable. I’m impressed actually. Because to a certain extent, that’s the way it’s supposed to be.
But if you want to become a citizen of Mexico, it’s impossible. They don’t have anchor babies in Mexico. You’re born a baby in Mexico, it’s like bye-bye.
Here, you’re born over here, “Oh, congratulations we’re taking care of the baby for 85 years.” Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. No, it’s not going to happen.
By the way, this is important, I sort of lucked into this one. The 14th Amendment. It says right there – you know, everybody says you have to go through a whole process, it’ll take many years, you have to go through every state. You have to do another amendment. It’s wrong. 14th Amendment covers it.
And some of the best legal minds in the world say “Trump is right.” I said, “What? I am? I didn’t know.” I lucked into it. Every once in a while you luck.
The fact is somebody comes in illegally and they have a baby, we’re not responsible. Now, we may have a court case but we’re going to win it. And a simple act of Congress gets rid of it. And a lot of people didn’t know that. Okay?
And the reason I said it can be possible because nobody could be foolish enough to allow a thing like that. How could it be possible? And we’re one of the only countries where that takes place.
And honestly, I use Mexico as an example because they’re so tough. If that happens in Mexico, they don’t even know what you’re talking about. What are you talking about? But with us? No good. Not going to happen anymore.
Our politicians live by a different standard and I think that shouldn’t happen. And some of them tried to do it.
You know the story in Obamacare, they don’t have to take it. They live by a different standard. And that’s not going to happen. Everybody’s going to live by the same standard. They’re going to have the same standard as the poorest person in this room. That’s the way it’s going to be.
You know, I’ll tell you, it is a question that’s asked a lot.
I know a lot of good people. A couple of people on the stage that I really respect, I’ve gotten to respect.
But the truth is too early. I like to get things done first. We’ve got to close the deal. I don’t want to think about it.
There are a lot of good people. There are a lot of good people. We’ve got to close the deal. We’ve got to get it done. And to get it done, I want Iowa.
So good luck everybody. Thank you very much. I love you. I love you. Thank you. And we’ll be back. Thank you.

…It’s a great honor. I want to thank Simon and Schuster, one of the most magnificent publishers. For years and years, I’ve heard about Simon and Schuster’s being a fabulous – I was going to say the Rolls-Royce, I was going to say the Harvard or the Yale, but they really are a great one. And I want to thank you very much. You’ve given us such tremendous support.
And we did this quickly and I think we did it very effectively. It’s been an incredible experience.
We wrote a book and the title – “Crippled America” – is very tough but unfortunately we have to do what we have to do and I think one of the reasons we’ve been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. We tell the truth.
And America is crippled. We owe $17 [trillion] and now $18 [trillion] and now it’s actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt.
We have a military that doesn’t have proper instruction from leadership. We don’t know what we’re doing. We’re losing all over the world with trade deals. Every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a name out of a hat, they’re beating us in trade.
And we can’t go on like this any longer. It’s impossible to go on like this any longer.
I always mention as an example Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. We get Sergeant Bergdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly. And that’s not the way it’s going to work anymore.
So we write about it in the book. We tell lots of different stories of lots of different things. And I think it’s going to be very instructional, very important.
To me, it was instructional.
When I did “The Art of the Deal”, I think one of the reasons it was so successful is that it was largely instructional. Even today when I speak, so many people hold up the book “The Art of the Deal” and the other books we’ve done.
So this is one that probably not since the Art of the Deal, I have to tell this to Louise and Simon and Schuster, have I worked so hard on a book and it was in a confined period of time. We wanted to get it out really, really quickly so that it pertain to what’s going on right now. It’s a moment of time. And we got it done.
And David did a fantastic job…And all of my people did a great job. They helped me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now. So this was not easy getting this in.

But we see by the lines – the lines go down to Park Avenue. They’ve been forming since last night and I’m going to be signing books starting at 12 p.m. We’re doing a couple of interviews and then we’re signing books starting at 12 p.m. and that’ll be very exciting for me.
But we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have been online now for 12 and 14 hours. I don’t know how they’re doing this but they do it. They find a way.
So I’m looking forward to getting to the signings.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think it’s a different book. You know, we just had polls come out today from Iowa where I’m leading. You saw the new poll from Iowa. You saw the new poll in New Hampshire where I’m leading big.
A poll just came out in Florida where I’m leading big. Georgia, Texas. I mean, all over the place.
And I think you know look we’re doing well. And if you add Ben and myself we’re beating everybody by a lot. That seems to be the big story that we’re beating – they call it the establishment. It’s called really the failed establishment because the establishment has let us down.
But I don’t know. I don’t know how his book is doing.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think my book is very hard-hitting. His is a different kind of book and he’s a different kind of a person. My book is very hard-hitting. It says it like it is. And based on what Simon and Schusters just told me, it’s selling like hotcakes. So we’ll see.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
We’re very different people. We have very different qualities and we are extremely different. And I’m different from all of the other candidates.
Look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me.
We are going to take the $400 billion a year that we’re losing with China, that’s going to be turned around. The $75 billion a year that we’re short on with Japan.
The $50 billion a year that we lost to Mexico. And that’s right, there will be a wall built. It will go up. It will be built. And people will come into the country legally.
So I mean, much different than – you’re look at Marco Rubio – very, very weak on illegal immigration.
You look at Ben and he’s very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of Medicare. I mean, Ben wants to get rid of Medicare. You can’t get rid of Medicare. It’d be a horrible thing to get rid of. It actually works. You get rid of the fraud, waste, and abuse. It works. So when a man is weak on immigration and wants to get rid of Medicare, I don’t know how he stays here.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I think that really Marco is over-rated. And frankly had Bush been a better messenger, he has the better message. I mean, if that was me delivering that message it would have been a much different story because he hasn’t been able to – Marco doesn’t show up to the United States Senate. He’s representing the people of Florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and I’m way up in Florida over everybody.
But Marco is a sitting Senator and he doesn’t show up for the people of Florida, and I don’t think he should be doing that.
Now, Bush gave a very weak message. I agree with that. It was poorly delivered. But the facts are on Bush’s side and ultimately I think Marco’s going to be hurt very badly.
And if you look at Mr. Singer, you have to see where Mr. Singer is coming from and when you see where he’s coming from, I think people are going to say, “Whoa, we didn’t know that.”
But look at Marco’s stance on illegal immigration. It’s really trouble for him. I don’t see how he can win.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Marco Rubio’s personal finances are discredit…All you have to do is look at his credit card. I mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. And I’ll tell you what, I love Florida. I’m in Florida all the time. And for years, I’ve been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. I would think that when you take a look at it, you would find that.
But his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, I’ve heard about it for years. You’ll have to find out.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his houses, with his – you know, he certainly lives above his means. There’s no question about that.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…I’ll tell you what. On the debates, it’s very interesting. Because I don’t really care that much. I want a room. I want a podium. And let’s get going. Because I don’t really care that much.
But a lot of the people that are candidates who I respect – many of them, not all of them – but I respect many of them, they felt it was very unfair because Hillary Clinton was given all soft balls. I mean, she wasn’t asked one tough question. They didn’t talk about her foundation. They didn’t talk about any of the problems. They didn’t talk about the emails. When the email problem came up, Bernie Sanders lost his whole campaign. I mean, what he did was so stupid from his standpoint. In order to get a one-minute soundbite of some applause, he gave up the emails. That was end of his campaign.
First of all, people aren’t going to his rallies anymore. He’s finished.
So unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, she’ll easily be the candidate.
But I will say this: She only got softballs. That’s all she got.
And if you look at the way we were treated, it wasn’t the same way.
With that being said, I don’t really care.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think the Republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. They coalesced at that last debate because I mean, it really started with me. The guy asked me a question. I think Harwood is probably finished as a credible reporter. He’s a disaster. And he was – it was such as horribly put question and so obvious.
And the Republicans coalesced around each other. It was actually pretty beautiful when you think about it.
And all we want to do is to be treated fairly.
But with me, I don’t care that much. Just give me a podium.
What I would say is this: The networks have made a fortune because of me, not because of anybody else.
You know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million people and the networks didn’t even want to broadcast it because nobody watched. Okay? Nobody wanted to watch.
Now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 million people. I mean, give me a break.
So somebody said, “How did they get there?”
And actually Variety and Hollywood Reporter, who do report this stuff pretty well – much better than the political press – they said “solely for one reason – it was Trump”. I’ll take the credit.
But I’ll tell you what I also want. I think that Wounded Warriors and our veterans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these debates – enormous profits – by the way beyond anything they’ve ever envisioned.
CNN was going to get $2,000 for a 30 second ad. They ended up getting $250,000. So they went from $2,000 to $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
The networks and the cable are making a fortune, and I think they should give some of the profits to the Wounded Warriors and the veterans. That’s what I want.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m giving them away. I’m giving the profits of my book – I’m giving them away to a lot of different – including the vets.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…I have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. This building was built as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a time when you didn’t see that in the construction trades. I mean, it was totally unique.
I have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that I have that are women. Many – a proportion that’s close to 50%. Might even be over 50% if I analyze it. And they get paid a lot of money – in many cases more than men doing the same job.
So women have always appreciated that about me. I’ve been in terms of employment really a standout and I’ve been honored for doing so well with women.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
What Jeb Bush was saying at the last debate? I don’t know. But he didn’t say it well.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…I like Telemundo by the way. I like it better than Univision. I’m suing Univision for $500 million.
…Because the country is doing so poorly. It’s a very accurate title because the country is doing so poorly.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That’s good. They’re going to have some demonstrations. Oh, good because it’ll get even higher ratings if they do that. I think it’s fine. I think they should demonstrate. Ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. It’s going to be one of the highest rated shows ever. And they’re very excited about it.
And I have a great relationship, as you know from Telemundo, with the Hispanics. You’ve treated me actually very fairly. Won the poll recently in Nevada. Won other polls. And in Nevada, I think I got 37% and leading everybody.
So I have a great relationship with the Hispanics. I have working for me thousands right now – thousands of Hispanics. I’ve had tens of thousands of people over the year working for me. I’m a job machine. I’m a job machine.
And one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single survey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. I’m two, three, and you see that – two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else.
And you’d almost say like it’s about the jobs, it’s about the economy. Then how’s anybody going to beat Trump in all fairness?
But I’ve had a great relationship with the workers. I’ve had a great relationship with jobs. And I’ve had an amazing relationship with the Hispanics. And I predict that I’m going to win the Hispanic vote.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think I’m going to win the Hispanic vote. I predict, yeah, I think I’m going to get the nomination and I will win the White House. I think beating Hillary Clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…A lot of European countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration.
Well, walls work. All you have to do is ask Israel. Walls work if it’s properly constructed. Not the walls that these characters, these politicians that we have running our country who are a disgrace – all talk, no action politicians – they build a wall this big, they drive cars right through it.
Walls work. All you have to do is go and see Israel. They will tell you that walls work.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
We need pomp and circumstance. Our country has no spirit. Our country has no gravitas. Our country doesn’t feel good about itself. And the primary reason is we have no victories. I mean, where have we had a victory? Where have we had a victory in trade? Where have we had a victory as an example this horrible deal that was signed with Iran where we’ve given them $150 billion and we lose everything. We lose everything. It’s a laughing stock. Worst deal. Worst contract I’ve ever seen drawn.
We have no victories. And I do write about it. We need some pomp and circumstance. We need spirit. We need a cheerleader.
I thought seven years ago when Obama got elected, the one thing I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. He’s not. He’s been a great divider for the country. He’s been one of the great dividers of all time.
I’m not saying dress. It has nothing to do with dress. It has to do with the fact that what he says is very divisive. He has been a great divider for this country, and that should not have happened.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…I’ll go anyway they want. I don’t care too much about the debates. Look, I’m the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. Nobody else gets the really nasty questions. In a certain way, maybe they’re defending me although I will tell you they’re not doing it for that reason.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think it’s irrelevant. I just – I like the debates. I’ve had the debates. I’ve done well in the debates. As you know, every single poll said I won all three debates. Now, I don’t know if I did or not but I certainly didn’t do badly. But every single poll says – even CNBC’s poll said I won the debate.
So I like the debates. I think they’re good for me. But we have to be treated a little bit fairly.
As an example, Hillary Clinton – no tough questions. I mean, why didn’t they ask about Bill? Why didn’t they ask about all of the different things. No tough questions. Now, that was staged by the Democrats. And frankly, they did a very smart thing in the way they staged it.
Well, we’re going to stage something properly also.
But as far as I’m concerned, I really don’t care that much. I just want a debate. I think debating is a good thing. It’s healthy. Gets everything into the open.
But you don’t want people like Harwood that read a question – blah, blah, blah – that he wrote – that he carefully wrote. He thought he was such – his career – in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened.
He could ask about anything you want. I mean, you have to ask about anything you want. Hillary had only softballs. All night long. It was like this – “Here, Hillary, hit this one out of the park.”

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Are you from Russia? All right. I think our relationship with Russia will be very good. Vladimir Putin was on 60 Minutes with me three weeks ago. Right? Putin. And they have one of the highest ratings they’ve had in a long time. So I’m going to give him total credit. But we will have a very good relationship I think with Russia.
Now, maybe we won’t. But I believe we will have a very good relationship with Russia. I believe that I will have a very good relationship with Putin.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Sounds okay to me.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think there are a lot of economic issues. We didn’t talk about trade. We didn’t talk about devaluations. Right? We didn’t talk about corporate inversions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they don’t even know what it means.
But we didn’t talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our country – massive companies – because they can’t get their money back and because they get lower taxes elsewhere. So they’re leaving and they’re taking their jobs with them.
The corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about.
These were all things that weren’t talked about at the debate. Instead, they talked about fantasy football. I mean, it was a big question – fantasy football. I’m saying what about corporate inversions? $2.5 trillion at least. I think it’s probably twice that number is in other countries wanting to come back and because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they can’t get the money back to invest in this country.
So they don’t talk about corporate inversions at the debates. They talk about fantasy football. Those are the few.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I was against the war in Iraq. You know, it was very early on. I’ll give it to you. Yeah, I have it upstairs…
Well, you know, you have to understand, I was a developer. A lot of people didn’t care about my view in 2003 and 2004. But there was a Reuters article taken from a magazine about my stance in 2004, I believe, in July of 2004 and it talked about my stance on how I felt about Iraq. And I said very strongly exactly what happened. I said you will destabilize the Middle East and when you destabilize the Middle East, Iran will take over Iraq. That’s exactly what’s happening. And they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the world, and in addition other bad things will happen. The other bad things are ISIS. I said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine which was previous to that. I’ve felt that for a long time.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…Do I think that it’s time for some of the other Republicans in the race that registering zero – in a couple of places they have a zero with an arrow pointing left, which I assume is a mistake because that’s less than zero. I assume that’s not happening. Do I think it’s time to have some of the other Republican candidates drop out? Yes. There are too many people. Well, I don’t want to get personal but you can look at the poll numbers.
Look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and they’re at 0% or 1% or 2%, they should get out.
Like, you know, look at me. I go to Florida and look at the numbers that just came out in Florida. 37%? Georgia. I mean, those are real numbers. These numbers that these people have – and I often ask myself. I asked Mark yesterday, “What are they doing? Do they do this for their brand? Because I happen to think it’s very bad for their brand.”
I think [Scott] Walker did a good thing. I think the way Walker – he saw it wasn’t happening, wasn’t going to happen and he just got out quickly. You know, he was favored. Don’t forget. You know. That was before Trump was going to happen. Right? But he was favored for a period of time. Favored. Walker. Gov. Walker. They thought he was going to win.
What happened is he got out.
I think the way he got out was great. I think he did a really smart thing for himself.
And frankly, other people should get out because I would like to personally have more time to talk about the problems of the United States and more importantly how we can solve the problems. So it’s a great question. People should get out.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Ivanka. Oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines – it’s true – I get is when I talk about my daughter Ivanka. She was just at Fortune Magazine for like something like Woman of the Year which is great…But Ivanka is going to be very involved and Melania is going to be very involved very soon. They’re going to be coming out very soon.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Oh, Ivanka is going to Iowa. When are you going to Iowa? Very soon.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I would say – I don’t see threats. I mean, whatever it is I have to do. Mark is saying “What are the top threats to your candidacy?” Who knows? I mean, you’re in the crazy world of politics. People change their minds.
I’m going to make America great again. Nobody else is going to be able to do that. I’m going to do it.
I’m going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and I think that’s awfully tough to compete with.
And one of the reasons that in my book I actually put financials in there – I showed some of the developments that – I have many, many more because you can only – Simon and Schuster – you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. Right? And there are four or five in a page. But I show some of the great developments that I have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially good, I show my financial statement from a year and a half, two years ago. Now it’s even better but we didn’t have that certified yet.
So I do that not in a braggadocious way. I do that because that’s the kind of thinking our country needs right now.
We are run by people that are incompetent. We are run by people who in so many words – I hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word. Unless they have bad intentions which I don’t believe they do. But we are run by incompetent people. We have incompetent leadership.
There are so many things. Like I mentioned corporate inversion. The Democrats want the money to come back. Who doesn’t? The Republicans want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats have said we want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats and the Republicans agree 100%. You have a vast majority. Maybe everybody. For three years. Guess what? They haven’t done anything. Right? They can’t even get along when they agree.
So here’s the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to this country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can spend that money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and they can’t do it. That’s a part of the problem.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, you’re going to look – a lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. A lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. There are those people that probably wouldn’t have want him to back. But we’ll see. I’ll talk to you.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, they all agree. They all agree. They just didn’t want to go through the unfair questions because they weren’t questions; they were statements.
You see, they were asking – they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgusting way.
And by the way, I think Becky is terrific and I think Carl is terrific. But I think John Harwood is not very good at what he does. But I think Becky Quick is a terrific person. I think Carl is a terrific person. But I will tell you John Harwood was a disgrace to CNBC.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…The question is should the Fed raise rates? They are not raising them because Obama has asked them not to raise them. In my opinion, he wants to get out of office because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen or potentially going to happen. And in my opinion, Janet Yellen is highly political and she’s not raising rates for a very specific reason because Obama told her not to because he wants to be out playing golf in a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesn’t want to see a big bubble burst during his administration. Janet Yellen should have raised the rates. She’s not doing it because the Obama administration and the president doesn’t want her to. And if she does it, you see what happens every time there’s even a thought of raising them just a little bit.
And one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitive with other currencies. Because if you look at the devaluations of China, of Japan, of many, many different countries, they’re making it impossible for our companies to compete with them because we don’t have leaders that know how to say to China, “Don’t do that. Don’t do that. Because if you do that, we’re going to put a big fat tax on you. Don’t do that.” And you know what? If you said that, they wouldn’t do it. If you have the right messenger…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and there are some pretty good elections. I’m not watching any of them in particular. I’ll be watching them on Tuesday night. But I’ll be out there; we’ll be out voting.
But the election that I’m watching is the election for the presidency of the United States. That is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one of the most important elections we’ve ever had in this country. We’re so far behind. And we cannot go another four years with incompetent leadership.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That’s a good question. Okay. So, Simon and Schuster came up to me. They wanted to do a book. They wanted to do on success and how do you do this and how do you build it and that’s what the book is largely about but we talked so much about the country. And I said, “I’ll do it but we have to talk about the country.”
What happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, do to a picture. And he did some great…photos. I’m smiling. I’m happy. I look good. Everything was fine. And then he took one where I wasn’t like really thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be a nasty picture. And then the book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture I had was that one. It’s a terrible, horrible, nasty picture. But when you’re talking about “Crippled America” and you’re talking about all of the problems we have, I can’t have a big smiley face up there. So that’s how we picked it. We picked the worst photo taken of me.
I would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesn’t go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book, and actually Simon and Schuster agreed with me. Okay?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Are the other Republicans afraid to debate? Well, some of them should be.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That’s the question I like. How am I preparing for my SNL? Well, I’m meeting with Lorne Michaels in a little while. Afterwards, we’re going to sign – I guess got thousands of people on line but we’re going to sign and then later on this evening I’m meeting with Lorne Michaels and the whole staff and we’ll start the preparation. We’ll pick our skits. Am I nervous? Not too nervous. Not too nervous. But we’re going to do a good job and we’re going have a fantastic show. We’re all going to have a lot of fun.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
My Jeb impression? No, I don’t want to do that. I don’t like showing a person sleeping at the podium.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Tom is asking “Can Jeb make a comeback?” I think it’s going to be very hard. Very hard. Not about money. I just think – you know, I came up with the energy. And I just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tremendous personal energy to get us back on track. You can’t do that when you don’t have that.
I think Marco is highly overrated. Highly overrated. He doesn’t have it and all you have to do is look at his stance on things.
Jeb – he lacks the quality that you need.
We’re talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. You need a very strong person with tremendous energy. Thank you very much folks, I’ll take the job.
But and it’s so important. And by the way, Ben Carson does not have that energy.
We need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to straighten out ISIS, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate Obamacare and come up with something far better for far less money. You need somebody with tremendous personal energy as President.
We have a president right now that doesn’t have energy. I mean, you think Obama has energy? He has no energy. And he’s been a horrible president.
We need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make great deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. And certainly Jeb does not have that energy in my opinion.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
From the Guardian. Ah, they treat me very nicely in Scotland. Go ahead.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we just went over that. Honestly, we just went over that. And it’s only going to make it harder.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
You’re going to see what we’re going to do. You’re going to see. But the whole thing with anchor babies, I turned out to be right. A person has a baby, lives in Mexico or lives in Asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, walks across the border, has the baby here. Now, we’re responsible for that person for the next 85 years. I don’t think so.
And by the way, I was right, they were wrong. The 14th Amendment does not give them clearance on that.
And if you wanted to do that in Mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any other country where you have a baby in that country and that country has that person for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh you right out of the country. You would be laughed out of the country so fast.
So, that turned out – I was 100% right. We’ll have to worry about that. We’re going to take care of it, and it’s going to be done in a very humane way.
But we’re going to bring back our country and we’re going to have a wall and Mexico’s going to pay for the wall and you know why they’re going to pay? And I have great relationships with Mexico and phenomenal relationships with the Mexican people. Phenomenal. And they buy apartments from me; they work for me by the thousands – by the thousands. Phenomenal relationships.
But let me just tell you we lose so much money with Mexico in terms of trade imbalance – $45 billion last year. Plus, we give Mexico billions and billions of dollars. They will pay for the wall. And it will be very interesting.
And you know what? People are going to come into this country but they’re going to come in legally.
Thank you very much, everybody. You just like me because my daughter happens to be Jewish. Right? She has a great husband, Jared, and I’ll tell you what Ivanka could not be happier and she’s very proud. The only bad news, I can’t get her on Saturday. I call and I call. I can’t speak to my daughter anymore on Saturdays. But that’s okay.
It’s an honor to be with you. You know, I’ve devoted so much time over my life to Israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me they haven’t done what I’ve done. I’ve received many, many awards.
I was the Grand Marshal of the Israeli Day Parade at a very dangerous time when people said, “Don’t do it. Don’t do it.” I walked up Fifth Avenue. I’m looking up for lots of trouble. But I said, “No way am I not going to do it.” And it was a rough time as you know. It was 2004, and it was a tremendously successful parade. Maybe their most successful parade that they ever had.
So, I’m in a different position than the other candidates because I’m the one candidate I don’t want any of your money; I want your support but I don’t want your money.
I’m self-funding my campaign. It’s been an amazing experience for me because I have very little money invested so far.
I thought by this time I’d have about 30 million in ads and I have none although I took a small radio commercial the other day in Iowa. But we have virtually no money in invested in ads or advertising. And I think you as business people will feel pretty good about this and respect it.
At first, I was embarassed by that. I said, “You know, I think we’re going to have spend money just to spend money” but it’s not really like a good thing to do because I am in first place by a lot. It’s not even close. Every single poll, every single state.
The numbers just came in three minutes ago in New Hampshire – the PPP poll – Trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest are off the board. They have to drop out pretty soon I guess, right?
Most of importantly, favorability – no, I still like the top number the most but favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and I beat Hillary in the Fox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. That’s ultimately the most important.
And you know, I’ve been a tremendous fan and I’ve been a tremendous contributor. I’ve given a lot of money recently to Hatzalah, $100,000, emergency response. They do a fantastic job.
And my father, Fred, was always a big supporter. So I grew up in that environment. I grew up in Brooklyn, Queens, and Israel was always very paramount in our mind.
In fact, I’ve been sometimes criticized because I received so many awards from Jewish groups, and they look at my wall. It’s loaded up. But now the Christians are catching up, I have to tell you.
My Christians are liking me a lot lately and they’ve been great. They have been great.
So, Obama is the worst thing that’s ever happened to Israel. The worst. The worst.
And when I see great friends of mine who are very, very pro-Israel, very – I mean, they love Israel. They love it with passion, and they’re having fundraisers for Obama. I said, “What are you doing?”
And it’s almost like they answer me and they say, “We don’t know. He comes to New York. We don’t know. We don’t know.” I said he’s a disaster.
I really believe the Iran deal. Look, I’m a negotiator like you folks. We’re negotiators.
We don’t build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, Afghanistan for $43 million – can you imagine this? A small gas station – $43 million – and then they used the wrong kind of terminal because they don’t sell that type of gas. Okay? $43 million for a gas station.
How many think they could have done it for less? Would you raise your hands please?
But I look at Obama, I look at that deal where we gave to Iran $150 billion. They don’t need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. They can buy them. It’s true. Why do they have to develop them? They can buy them. We gave them $150 billion.
They go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self-inspect. How about that? On their major, most dangerous they can self-inspect.
We’re going to let them self-inspect. And then you have of course the 24 days and the 24 days we’re all good with contracts don’t start until such and such happens. It could be forever before you ever go into inspect.
And we don’t even get our prisoners back.
And now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want 19 people for our three. They don’t want to give us our four. You know we have four. But they only want to talk three.
Now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago.
And maybe better than any audience, I mean, the people in this room understand what I’m saying. It should have been you walk in – by the way, did you ever see a negotiation take so long? And we conceded on every single. We didn’t win anything. We didn’t win anything.
But that should have been with our prisoners – day one, whatever it is years ago, we have to get our prisoners back. You don’t want them. We need them. It will make us look better. Both everybody is going to like us more. With the American public, any deal that we strike, it’s going to look good.
And you say that. We have to get our prisoners back. Day one. They’re going to say, “No, we’re not giving.” And we’re going to say, “Bye bye. Bye! Call us when you’re ready.” And then we go out and double up and triple up the sanctions. I guarantee you within 48 hours they’re calling, begging us to come back to the table and you have your prisoners back. It’s so easy.
Now, the president, you saw that, and John Kerry, who is probably the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen. No, he’s the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen. He did not read The Art of the Deal, folks, I can tell you that. Now, he’s one of the few. He’s one of the – biggest selling of all time business book of all time, he didn’t read it. And Obama definitely didn’t read it. Obama, ayeyeye. Oh.
But they said – this is hard to believe but this is what they said – a lot of press back there so I have to say everything exactly correct because if I don’t I end up with a – they said we didn’t want to complicate the negotiations by asking for the prisoners. It’s really complicated. We want our prisoners back. Oh, so complicated. They said they didn’t want to complicate – so now, we’re going to end up making a new deal probably at some point.
I’d tell you this, look I’ll just tell you this: If I win, before I take office, I guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back. They’re going to be back, I guarantee you. They’re going to be back.
Now, our president doesn’t want to use the term – we had another event, which probably was – the one yesterday – probably was related. It always happens but it probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not. But it turns out probably was related – radical Islamic terrorism. And I’ll tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say. There’s something going on with him that we don’t know about.
Now, as far as Hillary’s concerned, she’s going to go with what he wants.
She shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did is criminal with the emails. She shouldn’t be allowed to run.
She’s going to have to follow his line because she’s on a thread. You know, look, in real life, his Attorney General, his U.S. Attorney, his Attorney General. So his Attorney General is going to listen to him in my opinion. I think it’s very dishonest what’s going on with our government.
Gen. [David] Petraeus was given a life-changing sentence. Other people have been sent to jail. Petraeus was, you know, essentially – look, I don’t want to get into it with the poor guy. What he went – for nothing, compared to what she did for nothing, for 5% of what she did.
And Obama, I mean, she can’t go against him because only does boom she gets indicted. That’s the end of it. That’s the end of it.
So when you see Hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and he’s got control of her. I mean, it’s just total control.
But I’ll tell you what, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. What she did was a criminal act.
And remember this, this is a six-year – you have a six year statute of limitations. So she’s fighting for her life. If she doesn’t become president, she could have a real problem. Does that make any sense to anybody? Does that make sense to anybody?
Because what she did was just wrong. Okay? And you know she’s been involved in corruption her whole life, whether it’s Whitewater. I mean, her whole life is corruption.
She was a horrible Secretary of State. She did a horrible job other than traveled a lot. She traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. The whole – the world blew up around her. It blew up.
500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help and she didn’t respond.
The truth is she doesn’t have the strength or the energy. She responded to her friends. You know the friends we’re talking about. Some of those friends are, you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there.
But she responded – yeah, you get that, right? A lot of people don’t get that.
But she responded to a friend, but she doesn’t respond to an ambassador that’s asking for help. Hundreds – hundreds of requests and she doesn’t respond.
Now, remember this, I go every night to someplace. I mean, yesterday I was in Manassas, Virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd.
The other day I was in Florida, we had 12,000 people in Sarasota at 12 p.m. with the football games going on. 12,000 people. The convention center held 5,000. So we had thousands outside. I made a speech outside. I made two speeches…I said, “You can’t get me a larger convention center so I can do one speech?” My people said, “No, this is the biggest one. We set a record – a big record. We set a record everywhere. We beat the record of Elton John. It’s true. Elton John. I’m no longer competing with politicians. I’m competing with the musical talent.
One of the great musicians said “You get the largest crowds of any single human being on Earth without a guitar” meaning who doesn’t count on music.
So it’s true, we’ve had tremendous response. We’ve had incredible response.
I think you know if you look at what’s going on and I think based on the response, based on the polls – again I don’t want your money therefore you’re probably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. Trump doesn’t want money therefore we can’t – even though he’s better than all these guys, even though he’s going to do more for Israel than anybody else, even though Bibi Netanyahu asked me to do a commercial for him and I did and he won his race, so I was very happy about that. But he asked me to do a commercial. And they said I was the only celebrity. I don’t know if that’s – but they said I’m the only celebrity. I don’t know. I’m not a celebrity. See now I’m a politician. I’m so embarrassed by that term.
You know, my how life I’ve been a business, I’ve been a developer. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have unbelievable statements and unbelievable company.
A lot of people said, “Oh, he’ll never file.” This you’ll get a kick out of. “He’ll never run because he’ll never want to file various papers. And then he’ll never file this and that and then you’d have to sign your life away.” The first paper – we all know about first papers. You sign your life away. That’s the end of it. He did it.
Then they said, “Well, he’ll never sign and he’ll never file his financials because who knows, maybe he’s not as rich as people think.”
So I filed my financials – almost 100 pages. The biggest ever filed by the federal elections. And everybody said, “Oh my, it’s much bigger and much stronger and holy mackeral, look at these numbers!”
…If I didn’t run, I’d probably would have filed anyways because you know I built a great company and I like to brag about it whenever possible. It’s true.
Some of the greatest assets – Doral, you know, Doral and Turnberry in Scotland and Trump Tower and many buildings in Manhattan. Just many – Bank of America building in San Francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and things…
And the reason I bring that up is because that’s the kind of thinking we need.
And I don’t bring it up as braggadocio. I bring it up because that’s the kind of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. We have people that don’t know the first thing about the word negotiation.
I can take anybody in this office, believe me, and they’re better than Obama and they’re better than Kerry and they’re better than the foolish people – the foolish people. It’s so embarrassing when you see what happens.
Sergeant Bergdahl, all right? Sergeant Bergdahl – we get a traitor; they get five of the greatest killers that they’ve wanted for nine years. You know, the deal was five for one.
And they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. You know about Sergeant Bergdahl. He deserted. Six people were killed trying to get him back. They were looking for him.
The general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, “No, he deserted. He was a traitor.” And we still made the deal.
So we get a traitor. We can give him back. Do you want to re-negotiate deals? Some of us will re-negotiate deals. I would say about 99.9 – is there anybody that doesn’t re-negotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates so I want to re-negotiate – perhaps more than any room than I’ve ever spoken. Maybe more. It’s okay. I’ve been called on that a couple of times too.
But the fact is I want to renegotiate that deal. I want to drop him right smack in the middle of where he came from. The hell – they can have him even if we don’t get the five guys back because that’s not going to happen because you know where they are right now? They’re right now all in the battlefield fighting us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in.
So they get their five guys that they’ve wanted for nine years they’ve wanted them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. But that’s the way our people negotiate. They’re stupid people. Okay? They’re stupid people.
It’s very sad. It’s very sad.
So I’ll just tell you that I’m going to win. I am. I’m going to win. I mean, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the wrong thing happens. But I’ll tell you what, I have a great secret service. Here’s a nice one, you’re number one, they give you a secret service. I never saw so many people – talented people, great people.
But I believe I’m going to win. I really have just a great feeling about it. And you know, my life has been about winning. I’ve won, and my life has been about winning, and that’s what I want to do for the country.
And if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that deal, I have no interest.
It’s like the other day – Ivanka, she’s doing so great. “Dad, we can buy this wonderful office building and I said, “Honey, who cares? How can you talk to me about such trivial things, Ivanka?” It’s amazing. See? Now I’m dealing in trillions. I’ve never heard of trillions before. You know, with this – we owe $19 trillion.
We just signed a budget that’s so bad and the Republicans – you know, we know where the Democrats are coming from. But these Republican politicians, they go to Washington and they’re going to end Obamacare, which I’m going to do by the way – I’m ending, I’m terminating, it’s going to be repealed and replaced with something much better. But they go to Washington and they’re going to do this and they’re going to do budgets – like I heard the guy before “We’re going to work in the budget.” It’s all about that. What happens is they’re going to do budgets like we’re going to do this and that and I tell this story – then they walk into the Capitol Building, which is magnificent, and they look up “Darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at the angels. Oh, look at these magnificent floors.” They’ve never seen anything like it. “We’ve arrived. This is incredible.” And then they become mainstream. “We’ll vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote.” They don’t want to leave. They lose all of their courage. I want to use a nice word because otherwise they’d get reported for foul language. They lose all of their courage and they’ve let us down. That won’t happen with me.
So, again, you’re not going to support me even though you know I’m the best thing that could ever happen to Israel and I’ll be that. I know why you’re not going to support me and you know you’re not going to support me because I don’t want your money. Isn’t it crazy? No, it’s true.
You know, if I wanted to have your money, I think I’d have a damn good chance and I think I’d get more money than anybody else.
Do you know the money I have turned down? This has not been my life turning down money. Guys want to give me millions.
I would have made – poor Jeb Bush, I mean, this poor guy with his low energy. It’s sad. No, it’s sad.
I came up with that term, it became so defining. It’s like having it on his forehead “I am low energy”. No, no, it’s sad.
He raised $125 million, which means he’s controlled totally, totally controlled by the people that gave him the money.
That’s why you don’t want to give me money, okay? But that’s okay. You want to control your own politician. That’s fine. Good. Fine. Think about that, folks. Don’t worry about it.
I understand. Hey, five months ago, I was with you. Who’s better than me? Who is better than me? I gave $350,000 to the Republican Governors Association. I never even gotten a letter of thank you. It’s true. $350,000. I didn’t receive one letter, not one letter from one governor. Stupid. The good thing is I don’t give any – why would I give any more? You don’t get a thank you letter.
Politicians – remember this – politicians forget, politicians generally aren’t competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting elected and that’s what you’re going to end up having.
But I would love your support but I don’t want your money. I appreciate it. Now, let’s take some questions. Okay? Good.
Question on the new hotel Trump is constructing:
Donald Trump:
…I’m going to go there right after this. I have to go through – you know, you have to watch to make sure that the contractors aren’t stealing and ripping you off and everything else.
But to show you how important this forum is and how important the country is to me and how important Israel is to me, it’s so important, I don’t mention my projects. It’s not like very important to me anymore.
What’s really important to me is the United States and making it great again.
My theme is Make America Great Again. I mean, it’s taken off like crazy. The hats – it’s going crazy.
But you know, some of these guys try to copy it but I had it trademarked because we’re smart.
A couple of them got up. No, you see, I was making this speech and everybody stood up – make America great again… But nobody stood up to them. But we sent them a little notice – don’t use that term. We’re trademarked.
Can you imagine I got the approval?
But we are – we’re building a great hotel down the road. I hope you all stay and it’s going to be wonderful…
Question on Trump’s view on Israel’s commitment to peace:
Donald Trump:
…So I was interviewed yesterday by a whole group of reporters from AP and they did a very good job. Very fair story.
And one of the questions was about Israel and the Palestinians what’s going to happen.
I said – I used that as an example of some deals that are maybe the hardest deal ever in history to make…Can we think of any deals? We all have tough deals, right? You know, we have some good, some bad…
But I said people are going to have to make sacrifices one way or the other.
I believe – because I’m a dealmaker – I believe that I can put both sides together.
But I said, it’ll take six months. At the end of six months and maybe sooner – with us we have a deal instinct. A lot of us. And you can walk into a room and you can almost tell like in two seconds whether or not you’re going to make a deal.
I will know very quickly whether or not I’ll be able to put that deal together.
I used that in this interview as an example of perhaps the hardest deal in history to put together. There’s probably no tougher deal.
If I could do that, it would make me so happy because there’s so much violence, so much death, and just been going on for so many years.
Now, I said you have to have a commitment to make it. I don’t know that Israel has the commitment to make it, and I don’t know that the other side has the commitment to make it.
With that being said, you know, I have a good chance of winning because you look at what’s going on. So I have a good chance. I don’t like to as a dealmaker give away a lot of cards by talking about how I feel about this or that. I’d rather save it for that moment when you walk into the room. I don’t want one side or the other saying.
Look, I think people know where I stand. But wouldn’t it be great if they could make a deal? But a lasting deal, a real deal. Not a phony deal that’s going to last a week and then bad things started happening again.
I’d love to – and I will give it. You know Obama, as you know he said it won’t happen, meaning he gave up on this before it even started.
But I think it would be a great thing for Israel – I think it would be a great actually for both sides if a real deal could be made, and I’m going to give it my best.
I’m a great dealmaker. That’s what I do. I made a lot of money. I’m going to give it my best. It would be great if that deal could be made.
By the way, Israel has given a lot…And a lot of people don’t know that. I think the public relations for Israel hasn’t been so great because Israel’s given a lot but hasn’t been given a lot of credit for what they’ve given…
In fact, some things have been given which were unthinkable and a lot of turmoil it caused in Israel. There were things given. But I’d like to go in with a clean slate and just say let’s go, everybody’s even, we love everybody, and let’s see if we could do something.
But I do think this – and I do think right from the beginning and that one of the reasons I’m saying it now even though perhaps it comes back to haunt me later on it has to be said that Israel has given a lot. I don’t know whether or not they want to go that far in a little step and you know that’s going to be up to them. But Israel has not been given the credit that they deserve for what they’ve done. I will say that. I will say that. So that’s it.
Question on whether Jerusalem should be the undivided capital of Israel:
Donald Trump:
You know what I want to do? I want to wait until I meet with Bibi. You know, I’m leaving for Israel in a very short period of time. I know. I know what you’re saying. I just – you’re not going to be – who’s the wise guy?
Do me a favor. Just relax. Okay? You’ll like me very much, believe me. Okay? And you wonder why you get yourself in trouble. All right? You’re going to like me very much. It’s going to be fine.
But again, you can’t go in with that – if you’re going to make a deal and you could make a great deal – you can’t go in with the attitude we’re going to shove it down. You’ve got to go in and get it and do it and do it nicely so everyone’s happy. Don’t worry about it. You’re going to be very happy. Okay? Don’t worry about it.
Question on Netanyahu:
Donald Trump:
I think he’s a very good man. I think he’s been treated very badly. I think that our president has been unbelievably rude to Bibi. I don’t know how many people like Bibi. But I think he’s been unbelievably rude.
And – I mean, we’ll talk about deals after the fact, which is a shame but I think the Iran deal is the worst single thing.
Perhaps it’ll go down – and I’ve been pretty good at predicting things. I think it’s going to go down as the worst single thing that’s ever happened to Israel. I think it’s a catastrophe for Israel.
And I think the fact that Obama was willing to make that deal for anybody that loves Israel to support this guy or even the Democratic Party is impossible to believe.
I think it will be one of the great catastrophes.
But if I get in, I will straighten it out, believe me. It’s going to be straightened out. It’s going to be straightened out tough and it’s going to be straightened out fast.
The one bad thing is if I get in, the $150 billion is gone. That hurts me and that hurts the people of Israel. But the $150 billion is gone because it’ll be gone before you get there.
You know, we’re talking about a year and more actually. Although the election very quick. You know, it’s coming up. It’s now less than a year and you know we have the Iowa starts on February 1st and then we go right down the line and it’s very exciting. We’re talking about a couple of months now for it to start.
For a person like me, I mean, it’s very exciting.
Question on which Arab leaders with whom Trump can work:
Donald Trump:
Well, I haven’t been working too much with the Arab leaders, to be honest with you. Okay?
You know, I told you I made commercials for Bibi. I don’t know if that’s going to help me in the negotiation. I can tell you. You know, I’m trying to keep it nice and level, right? Then I get people screaming at me. But I’m trying to keep it as level as possible but I for the most part don’t know.
The King of Jordan seems like a nice man. I mean, I don’t know. We’re going to see. A lot of people like him; some people don’t.
But I think I will probably be able – what my history – you know, I took some heat because I get along with Democrats, I get along with liberals, I get along with conservatives, I get along with Republicans. I get along with everybody. That’s what I was – I’m a businessperson. I get along with everybody. We have to get along with everybody.
And I took some heat and I always explained that. I said, “Wait a minute, I’m a businessperson. I’ve got to get along with everybody.” I live in Manhattan. It’s all Democrat. I mean, it’s virtually all – Republicans don’t even run people for the most part and if they do they get 5%. You know, they get a very small percentage of the vote. Got to get along with everybody.
I think that’s going to be a tremendous asset because right now we have gridlock in Washington. We have people that – they don’t talk.
You know, I remember that years ago because I’ve been a very political person on the other side but always very political.
But years ago, the Republicans and the Democrats – they used to like each other. They’d get along. They’d have dinner together. They’d argue and they’d fight and they’d disagree and would have, you know, different views and things.
But in the evening, they’d go out and they’d have dinner together with their families. You don’t see that anymore.
There’s total hatred and there’s total gridlock.
I’ll give you one point, which I think is important. Corporate inversions. Right? So you have companies leaving the United States and they’re leaving because of better taxes and better a lot of things. A lot of things are better. But they’re leaving. Pfizer. How good is Pfizer? Thousands and thousands of jobs are going to be lost.
But they’re also leaving because we have $2.5 trillion at least – I think it’s a much higher number than that. $2.5 trillion – that’s out of the country that these companies can’t get back because of bureaucracy and horrible trade agreements but because the taxes are too high. They’re so onerous that nobody in this room would agree to pay that much money to get your money out.
So they leave it over there and they actually take the company and they move the company to the money because that’s how much money.
The Republicans and the Democrats totally agree that the money should come back. For three years they can’t get a deal. There’s no leadership. It’s gridlock.
There’s an example of something where everybody agrees – all the people that you see up here they all agree but they can’t get it done because they’re politicians. They’re all talk; they’re no action.
So there’s something and it’s so important. It’s not like something where they don’t get – like there’s big disputes and we understand that. This is something everybody agrees – the money should pour into this country and we should use the money and all the things – taxes paid.
But they agree and they can’t get it doen because of gridlock and incompetent leadership.
Question on Hillary Clinton:
Donald Trump:
You know, honestly, I don’t think anybody can say. She says she is. But now she says all of a sudden maybe less so than you thought because she’s going very, very far over to the other side.
I mean, Bernie Sanders has brought her to positions that she didn’t want to be at. You look at some of the things that she’s saying right now.
But I’ll tell you what, whether she is or not, she doesn’t have the strength or the energy to help Israel. I’m telling you she doesn’t.
…But just take a look. She’ll come out and do an event and you don’t see her for another four days, three days, five days. No, it’s true.
Think of it. We don’t need – some people say it’s not nice to say. She doesn’t have the strength or the energy.
Israel needs more than just our support. They need strength. They need real power behind them.
Because you know, you look at as these countries fall over there, Israel’s looking more and more – you know, Israel has some difficulties.
And one thing and I think you’ll all admit it. These people are fighting really dirty but they fight a lot better than we used to think. Right? We used to think “Oh, that was easy.”
15 years ago with my friends from Israel because I have a lot of friends from Israel, they used to smile and laugh “Oh, don’t worry about it.” Now they’re saying, “These guys are – they’re dirty fighters.” And they’re not bad. You know, they’re tough. They’re not the JV. Okay? Obama said they’re the JV. They’re not the JV folks.
We need tough. We need General George Patton. We need General MacArthur. We don’t need the guys we have. I see them on television – generals. I don’t want my generals on television saying “Well, ISIS is very tough.”
I saw a guy the other day. ISIS is very tough. I don’t know. I don’t need that.
Do you think General George Patton – they don’t like him because he was a foul mouth vicious horrible brilliant guy. So he would never make it. They probably would have had him thrown out years ago.
But we need Patton. We need a genius like MacArthur.
And we have those people. We have those people. I’ll find that person.
But we’re going to knock the crap out of them, I’ll tell you what. We’re going to win. We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
Question on the greatest challenges facing the U.S.:
Donald Trump:
Well, I think radical Islam right now is, and I feel that’s the greatest. And again, we have a president who refuses to use the term.
But radical Islam is – I’ll tell you one thing I know isn’t is global warming. That’s the one thing…I know isn’t.
I mean, we have a guy that just the other day who said – here they want to blow everything – this is right after Paris. They want to blow our cities up. They want to destroy our civilization, and he’s worried about global warming, which a lot of people think is a hoax.
By the way, I won so many environmental awards shockingly. No, it’s true.
And you know what I want to do? I want really immaculate air. I want clean, crystal water. I want a lot of things. Okay? I want a lot of things.
But global warming – you noticed they changed the name – they go global warming, they go climate change, they go – now I hear a lot of extreme weather. How can you miss with extreme weather, right? If it’s cold, it’s okay. If it’s hot, it’s okay. If it’s windy, if it’s hot – everything is extreme. So now they use extreme weather. It is a disgrace what’s going on.
And to have this man embarrass us by standing up and saying that global warming is our biggest threat, we got to get him out so fast and thank goodness we only have a year left.
Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.

Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
We start by paying our great respects to Pearl Harbor.
We don’t want that stuff. We don’t want World Trade Centers. We don’t want that ever happen to us again. It’s not going to happen to us again.
So I want to thank everybody for being here. It’s a great honor.
They have thousands of people outside and sometimes they’ll say “Would you like to wait about an hour until they all come in?” But we can’t get them in anyways so what difference there. We all got lucky. We’re together tonight. Thank you.
So we have a lot of big news today. To me, very big was CNN just came out with a new poll about an hour ago and Iowa – great, great state – and in Iowa, Trump 33%. Beating everybody by a lot. You have Cruz at 20% and Carson at 16% and going down and Rubio at 11% and Bush at 4%. But it’s Trump at 33%. It just came out. It’s Iowa – we love Iowa.
By the way, great ship named after Iowa too. I’ve been on that one too. A really great one.
The other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. Trump 36% and then I won’t even mention the other numbers because they’re so low.
You know, when you have so many people running – we had 17 and then they started to drop. Ding. Bing. I love it. I love it. And you’ll be losing a lot over the next little while. I would imagine. I don’t know. When somebody’s down at zero I would think that eventually they’ll drop out. The only difference is there’s nothing to pick up if there is zero. What do you pick up? So anyways you’ll be seeing that.
One of the things I think that’s so important because to me very important in the same poll, which is the big national CNN poll, on the economy – so important – Trump 55%. Everyone else nothing.
On the budget – I’m really good at these things – economy, budgets. I sort of expected this. On the budget, Trump – this is with 15 people remaining – Trump 51%. Everyone else bing.
Oh, here’s one that I started and I took a lot of heat. I took a lot of heat. Sort of like the one we’re talking about today. I guess you’ve heard a little bit about it. But I’ve taken a lot of heat on this one. Illegal immigration. Now, had I not brought that up in Trump Tower in June when I announced that I was going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe me.
You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that if you’re a successful person, especially if you have very success – you’ve done a lot of things, a lot of deals, a lot of everything, you can’t run for president.
And yet, that’s the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs.
We’re being run by people that don’t know what they’re doing. Very sad.
On illegal immigration, Trump 48%. That’s with 15 people. Everyone else, no good.
On a thing called ISIS…oh, don’t worry. We’ll have plenty – we’ll talk a lot about ISIS. Can you believe it?
Here we have generals. They go on television and talk. They do all talk. You people – a lot of military people here. Who’s military here? All right, I love you.
By the way, speaking of it, we’re going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so great, nobody’s ever going to mess with us again. Nobody. They’re never going to mess with us.

You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing we can do. The cheapest thing. Instead of fighting these wars that we don’t know what we’re doing and we have leaders that are afraid to do anything, we’re going to make it so great, so strong that people – gosh, they’re not messing. They’re not messing.
And we’re going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. We’re going to take care of them. Because they – thank you, they are not being taken care of.
We have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible veterans and it’s not going to happen any longer. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.
So with ISIS – Trump 46%. Can you imagine that? With all of these characters running.
On foreign policy, Trump way up. And you know, in theory you could say “Well, maybe it’s not my thing.” But people want to see strong, they want to see strength, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. And that’s it.
I watched last night and I watched the president truly that didn’t know what he was doing. He didn’t know why he was there. He refuses to use the term “radical Islamic terrorism”. He refuses to use the term.
I don’t even know if he knows what the hell is going on. I really don’t.
And then we’re looking at Hillary Clinton. Honestly, I know Hillary. It’s just going to be an extension of Obama. I think maybe worse.
She’s got no strength. She’s got no stamina. Remember that.
You don’t need a president with no strength or stamina when we’re being ripped off on trade, we’re being ripped off on Obamacare, which is going to be repealed and replaced by something really good.
When our soldiers aren’t being taken care of, when our military is never been like it is today.
One of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that we’re the least prepared now than anytime that he’s ever seen it and he’s been there a long time retiring. That’s how we are.
In the most dangerous world we’ve ever had because of the power of weapons, we have people that don’t know – they don’t – I’m telling you. I watch them. I watch these generals being interviewed.
Do you think Gen. George Patton would be interviewed?
…They’d be interviewed after total and complete victory.
Gen. Douglas MacArthur. They’re not big for interviews. You know, they shoot first, they talk later.
These guys – and I don’t think we’ll have to.
You know, just so you understand, Bush – Bush, he said yesterday he was being interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. He was saying the nicest things about me. Of course, he says he’ll be elected. He’s at what 3%? Right?
No, but he said some things and I was like – I said “Who says that about an opponent? You don’t say those things.” You’ll find out what he said. But he said very nice things.
But, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the tone – the tone – of Donald Trump is not nice.
And I say it all the time. We have people whose heads are being chopped off in the Middle East because they’re Christian and for other reasons. They’re being dumped and drowned in steel cages. And we talk about my tone.
Hillary said the same thing. “Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice.”
These people are living in a different planet. Different planet.
And remember what I said about Hillary. We need somebody who’s strong. We need somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all of those  things.
You know, I know a lot of tough people but they’re not smart. That’s no good. They’re easy.
We need tough. We need smart. We need like every character. We are so far behind the eight ball in this country.
We owe $19 trillion. The budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $21 trillion. It’s a – think of it. Trillion. Trillion. Trillion dollars. Who the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? There was no such word.

We owe $21 trillion in the very near future. We’re really in trouble. We have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to rebuild our military.
And yet, we do deals with China where there’s a trade imbalance of over $400 billion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any question.
Japan – they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. That’s like a loss.
You look at Mexico. We’re going to build a wall. It will be a real wall. It will be a real wall. Gonna happen. It’s gonna happen.
The people I’m dealing with – and you know, I really focus on Hillary later because I have to get through these 15 people. You know, there’s 15 of us.
I had Perry came at me strong; he went down. I had Gov. Walker, nice guy, he went down. Every guy that attacks me so far they’ve all gone down. We’ve got to keep it that way, right?
I mean, Lindsey Graham. He’s at zero. He’s at zero. Zero.
Let me ask you a question. I don’t get Lindsey Graham. I don’t get him…He’s literally at zero. You see him. And he keeps talking. He gets so much television. I mean, he’s on television all the time and he doesn’t go up. He’s at zero, folks.
His ideas are so bad. I’m more militaristic than him. But I know how to win; he doesn’t. He just wants to attack everything. He doesn’t know where the hell – ra ha.
And he always sits with John McCain. It’s like they’re the Bobbsey twins. They’re always sitting together. No, it’s true. Do you ever notice? Sometimes I want to see him by himself. He’s always sitting with John McCain, who’s fine. I’m not knocking it. But you got to know what to do.
Now me, I was against the war in Iraq. So everyone says, you have the right temperament – I have a great temperament. But you’ve got to attack. If you’ve got to do something, you’ve got to know what you’re doing.
I said if you attack Iraq and you wipe it out, Iran is going to take over the entire Middle East because you’re going to ruin the balance. It was so simple to me.
And actually they sent a group from the White House to see me because I got so much publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the White House to see Mr. Trump. I said, “Fellas, you’re going to have Iran take over the Middle East and that’s what’s happening.”
And Iran’s going to take over Iraq as sure as you’re sitting there.
And by the way, Iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world. We lost of thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors all over the place. $2 trillion. We have nothing. We got nothing. We have absolutely nothing. And we left.
And we have a president – we shouldn’t have been there but then we shouldn’t have left the way we left.
… [Interrupted by protester]

You know, the funny thing is I look at Democrats and liberals and conservatives and Republicans – wouldn’t it be good all of us if we can get together and really make our country great again? Is that what we want to do?
I’ll bet you that if I spoke to that young woman, that quickly I really think I can convince her that we’re all in this together, folks. We want to have a strong country. Right?
…But you know, if you think about it and you’ll have some that can never be satisfied no matter what. They’re just troublemakers, et cetera, et cetera. But most people aren’t and they believe something. And I have some very smart friends don’t agree with me; they agree with the other side.
But I really believe that if you took it about making America great, we have to be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if we’re not vigilant – [interrupted by protester] – that was the same person. I’ve got to tell you, so far, the security is not doing a great job in here, I’ll tell you that. That was the same person. You can do very nice but why don’t you get her out because honestly it’s inappropriate. So security, strengthen yourself up.
See, our country has this kind of security. That’s the problem we have…Treat her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. Same person. One person. It’s one person. They let her out. They gave her a second chance and the same thing happens.
But you would think that everybody we’re all on the same basket that everybody every single person – [interrupted by protester]
…So you would think that if we could get together, we’d all be in the same boat.
Now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that I thought was highly inappropriate.
In fact, I tweeted “Is that all there is?” about the president’s speech and I wrote something today that I think is very, very salient, very important, and probably not politically correct but I don’t care. I don’t care.

You know, we had a situation in California very recently where somebody was making bombs in an apartment. The mother saw them. The mother didn’t notice anything wrong. I watched the sister being interviewed. Believe me, in my opinion, she was lying like crazy. I watched that interview. “Oh, my brother was such a wonderful guy. I didn’t know, I didn’t know, I didn’t know.”
And I watched the next door neighbor saying, “Oh, well we didn’t report them because we didn’t want to racially profile or we didn’t want to profile.” Give me a break. Give me a break.
We’re like the stupid country in so many different ways. It’s so – can you imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with the kind of crap that’s happening with us?
They didn’t want to report them because they thought it was profiling.
Okay, they saw bombs. They saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasn’t to build a bathroom. When a bomb is this long, can’t put too many of them together for a bathroom, right? And we thought they maybe but we didn’t want to racially profile. Oh, okay, you’re okay, you’re innocent.
Or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything and they go back to World Trade Center – the worst, worse than Pearl Harbor because with the World Trade Center they were killing innocent civilians. At least while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they were…but while it was an attack, at least it was military. But this was an attack on the World Trade Center.
So, what’s happened is we’re out of control. We have no idea who’s coming into our country. We have no idea if they love us or if they hate us. We have no idea if they want to bomb us. We have no idea what’s going on.
And then I looked at poll numbers and I don’t mean polls where I’m winning; those numbers I like looking at. These numbers I hated to look at. And it’s very, very sad.
I’ll go after some of the numbers. 25% of those polled and this was from the Center for Security Policy – very highly respected group of people who I know actually.
This is people living in this country. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans is justified as Muslims. 25%.
51% of the Muslims living in this country – by the way, I have friends that are Muslims; they’re great people. But they know we have a problem. They know we have a real problem. Because something’s going on, and we can’t put up with it, folks. We can’t put up with it.
51% – 51% highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is.
So I wrote this out. The mainstream media wants to surrender the Constitution. The mainstream media – these people back here. They’re the worst. They are so dishonest. No, no, they’re so dishonest. They are so dishonest.
I mean, I have one from NBC, a reporter from NBC, and actually another one from CBS, they actually in Columbus, Ohio, I had a tremendous crowd like 10,000 people. It was a love fest. It went on for a long time. Everybody stayed right ’tis the end. I had one of the politicians – Kasich – who is just getting – he’s a horrible debater…He made a statement that “Oh, they left after 10 minutes.” Now, the press was there. They saw it. Nobody said it was a lie. It was a total lie. In fact, I had more people at the end than I had at the beginning. Nobody’s leaving. Nobody’s leaving here except for the one person that was screaming.
So, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didn’t want to do that because it’s not their thing to do.
You know, we get the biggest crowds. They don’t want to show this crowd tonight. They’re not going to show all the people outside trying to get in. They don’t do that. They have the cameras right in my face. I say fan the crowd just to show – look at all the people over here. It’s a record in the history of this ship. But they don’t show it. They don’t show it. No, no. And I say fan it and they never ever fan it. I say fan the crowd and they never fan it. And yet, I guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupting us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. It’s disgusting. Disgusting.
…And by the way, some of the media’s terrific but most of it 70%, 75% is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that. Scum. Scum. They’re totally dishonest people.
…

I had one the other day where I finished the speech and they said “Oh, Trump was interrupted and he left early.” I spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. I then answered questions and then I went around, you know, everybody knew it was false.
Amazingly, there’s a media group that calls the media and the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. She’s back there. Little Katie. She’s back there. What a lie it was. No, what a lie – Katie Tur – what a lie it was from NBC to have written that. It was a total lie. And they did a story where they – I didn’t know they had a group like this where they actually criticized the media. And they said it was a total lie. And I loved it. I loved it. I loved it.
And then other people pick it up. You know it’s NBC so somebody picks it up. Third rate reporter. Remember that. Third rate. Third rate.
So I said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our Constitution and our constitutional rights. And I don’t want that. I want ISIS to surrender. Okay? I want ISIS to surrender. Very simple.
It’s very simple. So here’s what happened. It’s been a little controversial. It’s been a great day because the poll numbers are through the roof. I like that.
But I have more…I wish we could call – is there any way we could call the election tomorrow? Wouldn’t you love that?
Now they’re coming at us in full force. They’re coming – not coming at me. They’re coming at all of us. They’re coming at all of us. Because you know, we have a noisy majority. They used to call it the quiet majority. People are fed up. They’re fed up with incompetence. They’re fed up with stupid leaders. They’re fed up with stupid people.
They are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for Sergeant Bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who – think of it. They knew he was a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. Six people were killed looking for him. Okay? Six people were killed. Young. Unbelievable. I watched the parents on television. I’ve seen the parents. But I watched the parents on television devastated, will never be the same. They left to try to bring them back. He left. He deserted.
You know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. It was called desertion. Now I heard the other day they won’t even do anything to him. Can you believe it? They think he’s going to get away with nothing. He’s going to have nothing.
So he left. Oh, they treated him pretty rough though. He got in there, he said, “I shouldn’t have done this. This isn’t working out the way I thought.”
Anyways, so we get him back and here’s the deal we made. We get a dirty, no good traitor. Six people killed…They get five of their greatest killers that they’ve been after – after – think of it for six years. In fact, I hear nine years.
So they get these – right now have gone – they’re out in the battlefield, trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks, I’d hate to tell you.
So we get Bergdahl and they get five of the killers that they’ve wanted for many years. That’s the way we do it.
The Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion. It’s called amateur night. We gave them $150 billion. 24 days – 24 days – we think there’s something wrong, 24 days we have to wait but it’s much longer than that because there’s a whole process before the clock starts ticking. So it could be forever.
But the best is where they have the right to self-inspect. “Are you doing nuclear weapons over there?” “Oh, we’ll inspect tomorrow.” “Oh no, we’re not doing nuclear weapons.”
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Always have been. And somebody would say that’s profiling. Trust me, they’re great negotiators.
And Kerry is a horrible negotiator and Obama is a horrible negotiator. Horrible. He’s a horrible negotiator. These people are horrible.
I always Obama would be a unifier. I never thought of him as being like a divider because I said “You know what? I don’t think he’s going to be a good president.”
I backed McCain; he lost by the way. And you know, I don’t blame McCain for losing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. But I backed McCain; he lost. I backed Romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on vacation or something the last month and he lost. And I said, “This time I’m going to do it myself. We’re not going to lose.” We’re not going to lose. We’re not losing.
And the recent Fox poll that just came out has me beating Hillary very easily one on one. I love that. That’s so important.

So, we put out a statement today. We watched this. And it’s impossible to watch this gross incompetence but I watched last night.
And we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy…
Shall I read you the statement?
Donald J. Trump is calling for – now, you’ve got to listen to this because this is pretty heavy stuff and it’s common sense and we have to do it. Remember the poll numbers. 25%, 51%. Remember the poll numbers. So remember this. So listen.
Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.
We have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice.
According to Pew Research, among others, there is a great hatred toward Americans by large segments of the Muslim population.
Most recently, a poll from Center for Security Policy released data showing 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans – these are people that are here by the way, people that are here – 25% not 1%. By the way, 1% would be unacceptable. 1% is unacceptable. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as part – think of that – as part of the global jihad.
They want to change your religion. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Not going to happen.
As part of the global jihad. And 51% of those polled agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is. 51%.
Sharia authorizes – now look, this is, I mean, it’s terrible. Sharia authorizes such atrocities as murders against non-believers who won’t convert, beheadings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans especially women. I mean, you look – especially women. Tough stuff.
And we have a president that won’t even mention the term and you’re talking about numbers like this.
Mr. Trump stated without looking at the various polling data, it’s obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension…
Where the hatred comes from and why, we’ll have to determine. We’ll have to figure it out. We have to figure it out. We can’t live like this. It’s going to get worse and worse. You’re going to have more World Trade Centers. It’s going to get worse and worse folks.
We could be politically correct and we can be stupid but it’s going to get worse and worse.
Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad.
These are people only believe in jihad. They don’t want our system. They don’t want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. They have no respect for human life.

Now, we can be weak. We can be ineffective. We can be foolish.
…[Interrupted by protester]
…So prior to Paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the people in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had guns, you wouldn’t have had the carnage that you had in Paris. You wouldn’t had that carnage. If they had guns, you wouldn’t had that carnage.
So important the Second Amendment. We have to preserve it and cherish it. And we can’t let these weak leaders diminish it.
If they had guns in Paris, if five people in that room, Paris and France has probably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target practice. “Come over here. Boom! Come over here. Boom!” People are sitting by the hundreds and many others are going to be dying. They’re sitting in the hospital in many cases waiting to die.
Now, the same thing a few days ago in California. No guns. We didn’t have guns. The bad guys had the guns.
And these young people – and I tell the press you’ve got to stop calling them “masterminds” – these are dirty, rotten scums. These aren’t masterminds.
Remember the guy in Paris with the big dirty hat? Remember the guy in Paris – the “mastermind”. I was watching all the networks. I won’t mention who but some of them disgusted me. “The mastermind is on the loose.”
And we have kids that are watching the Internet and they want to be masterminds and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids – they go over there. They’re young. They’re impressionable. They go over there and they want to join ISIS.
And we have our anchors – I think I got them mostly stopped. Did you notice that? I don’t hear it too much. But they say “the young mastermind”. Oh, he’s brilliant. Young man, he’s brilliant.
I don’t even he’s got a high IQ…In Paris, I call him the guy with the dirty filthy hat. Okay? Not a smart guy. A dummy. Puts people in there – mastermind – bing, bing, bing, it’s like shooting everybody. You’ve got to be a mastermind.
So the press has to be responsible. They’re not being responsible because we’re losing a lot of people because of the Internet.
And we have to do something. We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different people that really understand what’s happening. We have to talk to them. Maybe in certain areas closing that Internet up in some way.
Somebody will “Oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech”. These are foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people.
We’ve got to maybe do something with the Internet because they are recruiting by the thousands. They’re leaving our country. And then when they come back, we take them back. “Oh, come on back. Where were you?” “I was fighting for ISIS.” “Oh, come on back. Go home. Enjoy yourself.”
When they leave our country and they go to fight for ISIS or any of the other groups, they never come back. They never can come back. They never can come back. They can never, ever, ever come back. It’s over.
How about that? And now that they’ve become radicalized, they’re totally radicalized.
And how about the woman? She was in Pakistan then Saudi Arabia. She comes in on an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. Probably a guy who couldn’t get women. I don’t know what the hell his problem is. It’s probably the first women he’s ever had. I don’t know what was going on. But he became radicalized quickly. Notice how easy it is? He becomes radicalized and then they go on a spree.
Folks, those days are over. Those days are over. We have to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
Yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. But yes, we have to look at mosques. We have no choice. We have to see what’s happening because something is happening in there. Man, there’s anger. There’s anger. And we have to know about it. We can’t be these people that are sitting back like in the World Trade Center, like so many different things.
We can’t be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in California, probably for months they knew what was going on and they didn’t want to tell anybody. We can’t be that.
We have to be strong. When we see violations, you have to report those violations and quickly. Don’t worry about profiling. I promise I will defend you from profiling. I promise.

So when I started this whole quest – I mean, who knew it was going to turn into this? It’s been an amazing thing. No matter where I go, I have tremendous crowds, packed crowds, packed.
We went to Dallas – 20,000 people in Dallas. 25,000 people. Mobile, Alabama – 35,000 people. Here, every time I come to South Carolina, every time I go to North Carolina, every time I go to Iowa, New Hampshire, Virginia, wherever I go – Florida – we have crowds that are maxed. The only problem we have is the size of the room – thousands of people outside trying to get in. Usually I do a double. I go talk to them for a while, which I wouldn’t say I exactly love doing after the first one.
But there is an unbelievable love in these rooms – all the same. I love you too. I love you…Thank you. Thank you. I love you too.
There’s an unbelievable love in all of these places – Oklahoma – 20,000 people standing in a park on quick notice. There’s an unbelievable love. And there’s an unbelievable love of the country. We want to see good things. We don’t want to be bad people. We don’t want to be tough and nasty. We believe in the Constitution more than anybody.
But we can’t let people use and abuse our rights. We can’t let people kill us. They want to kill us. They want to destroy us. We can’t let it happen. We just can’t let it happen.
And I have a friend who’s a very, very successful man, and I went to one event – he came with me. We had 24,000 people. And this guy’s a real tough cookie. He’s a great financial guy. One of the guys I’d definitely use to negotiate with Japan, China. Believe me, you’re going to be in good shape when that happens. We won’t have these characters.
You know, this whole thing with all of these guys. By the way, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my campaign. Everyone else is controlled. Only one. I’m the only one. Only one.
I’m self-funding my campaign. And these other guys. You know, they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know.
I have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. I said, “Honestly, I can’t take it. I don’t want to do.” I can’t take it, which is very sort of like for me to not take money – my whole life I’ve been taking money. Now I’m sort of like what am I doing? But came in and I said, “So what are you going to do? I don’t want your money.” And he said, “I got to go someplace else.” They’re like gamblers. They’re like gamblers. But I said, “You like me best.” “I like you best but I’m going to go someplace else.” Because they want to be part – they want to –
…Let me tell you, who is more than me? I gave millions to these guys. Nobody knows the system better than me. I knew it from the other side. Don’t forget, I was the fair-haired boy. I was like the establishment. They’d all come to me, and I’d give them all money I write checks sometimes to Senators whatever the max – bing, bing, bing.
I used to say “Senators, don’t come to my office. Anybody that’s a U.S. Senator that calls me, we’ll send you a campaign contribution.”
But you know what? I’ll tell you something. In the end, the people that gives these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt PACS – they’re corrupt – they totally control Bush and Rubio and I won’t say Cruz because he’s been very nice to me. Nah, he’s been nice. He’s got to hit me first. Once he hits me, I promise you. I promise you.
No, I’ve been nice to Christie but he really hit me today. Chris Christie. I mean, I don’t know. He’s a friend of mine but he’s not doing well in the polls and he really, really hit me today. He hated this and yet he said anybody could come. You’ve got to look at some of the statements from the past. But he really hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the Muslims until we find out what’s going on.
Does that make sense by the way? Until we find out.
And he talked about – that’s inexperience and you know in other words he has experience right?
But that’s the statement of an inexperienced man…About we have to stop people that want to kill us from coming in. Does that sound like inexperienced?
So Chris, who’s a friend of mine, he hit me hard. And I said I got to hit him at least once. So I won’t do this a lot.
Look, here’s the story. The George Washington Bridge. He knew about it.
Hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, they’re closing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the United States, traffic flowing during rush hour. People couldn’t get across for 6, 7 hours. Ambulances, fire trucks. They’re with him all the time – the people that did it.

They never said, “Hey boss, we’re closing up the George Washington Bridge tonight.” No, they never said that. They’re talking about the weather, right?
He knew about it. He knew about it. Totally knew about it. He’s a got a very friendly group of people over there that they don’t think so. But I don’t know. It’s called life. You’ve got to be smart in life.
I would say there’s less than 1% chance. It could be but I doubt it. He knew about it. They didn’t mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakfast like everyday or every other day. They’d just say, “Chris, tonight we’re closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor a certain area is against you.” “Oh, okay.” They didn’t mention? Nobody believes that.
Number two. Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades. It’s a disaster. I have property over there – the taxes are through – I’ll use an expression – coming out of my ears, okay? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downgrades.
You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood.
I actually called. I said, “Let me ask you. Is he going to vote for Obama?” I thought he was going to vote for Obama. I don’t know. I think he possibly did.
And Romney I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed was he called Christie and had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that to me, I would have never spoken to him again. I would have never done it.
So when Chris talks about – when he talks about lack of experience – I built this incredible company. I filed papers where everyone said “Wow, that is unbelievable.” I would have probably filed them even when I didn’t run because I built a great, great company. Tremendous cash. Tremendous assets. Tremendous net worth. Very little debt. Unbelievable cash flow. And I filed.
Everybody said “Number one, he won’t run.” And I ran. I took a deep breath and I said, “Let’s go” to my wife and we came down that escalator. Right, the famous escalators. Hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because we will have turned around our country and that will be a positive note, okay?
But then they said, “Oh, well he announced.” So these talking heads – most of whom are not even smart people, believe me. Then they’d say well, they went to Ivy League college. So did I go to Ivy League college. They went to this. Most of them didn’t go to Ivy League colleges by the way but they say they’re brilliant. One’s brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? Like Perry. Remember Perry? We don’t like him.
But what happens is they say “Well, he’ll never file form A.” That’s basically where you sign your life away. I filed form A.
Then they said, “Well, he’ll never sign his financial statement because maybe he’s not as rich as everybody thinks.” Then they said, “And if he does, he’ll ask for many, many delays because you’re entitled to 45 day delays, delays, and you can delay it until forever. And they’ll delay it until after the election.”
I said, “No” so I filed it ahead of schedule. And what happened? Remember? They went down. They couldn’t believe it. It was much, much, much better than anybody ever envisioned.
I built a great company and the reason – honestly worth billions and billions of dollars. Remember that – low debt, great cash flow, and the greatest assets – Doral, Trump Tower, the Trump Building, big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco, 1290 Ave., land all over, land on the Potomac, land all over.
In North Carolina, I have a great piece of property. Trump National Golf Club. Some of you know it. Great, right at the best location.
And what happens? What happens? So I filed and everyone said “Oh, I can’t believe it.”
Then they said “Well, maybe he won’t do so well with the polls.” And you know, before I went, people never believed I was going to run. They never thought I was going to run.
And I told the story the other night for really the first real time. But my wife said to me “You know if you run you will win. Don’t you?” She’s very smart.
I said, “What do you mean?” She said, “If you don’t run, you’re never going to poll before. Nobody believes you’re going to run.” So if they do polls like they did these early polls, they weren’t great before I announced. She said, “No, the only way you’re going to get a poll number is you’ve got to announce.” Nobody believes even though they say, even though they say you’re running, it doesn’t matter. Nobody believes you’re running.
So I said, “All right.” I’m getting these lousy early numbers and I’m saying, “I don’t know. I don’t want to run and find out it doesn’t work.” I don’t want to be embarrassed like Lindsey Graham and all these guys who have nothing. It’s true. It’s true.
So I said, “All right. Let’s take it.”
So we go down on the escalator. You know what I did? You remember I took a deep breath because I’m telling you and you know what I’m talking about the press down there look like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras. I have never seen anything like it. The entire atrium of Trump Tower was packed with cameras and press. And I just said, “Let’s go” to my wife.

I took a deep breath and I went down and I talked about lots of things, including illegal immigration.
And illegal immigration was such a big subject. And I’m telling you had I not brought it up, it has turned out to be – and I took heat. I took heat like nobody has ever taken heat. Rush Limbaugh said “The most incredible incoming that I’ve ever seen a human being endure”. And then he doubled down a week later because I was right.
And now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.
And then you had the killing of Kate [Steinle] and the killing of Jamiel and the killing recently in California of a 66-year-old – think of it, 66-year-old – veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. And many, many more. It’s a huge problem.
And they take our jobs and a lot of other things.
So all of a sudden, everyone’s saying “Wow”…and from almost at the beginning, you’ve seen I’ve been at the top like from almost day one.
…The reason I tell you certain things and the reason I talk about what I’ve done and lots of good things. A little thing – Wollman ice skating rink. The city couldn’t get it built for high years. They were in there for like $20 million. They couldn’t get it done. I went to the mayor of New York, I said, “Ed Koch, I’ll get it done real quick.” He didn’t like it because he didn’t want to be shown up. I said I’ll do it and if it costs more than $2 million I’ll pay for it. I got it built for peanuts. Got it done in four months. And we had ice skating in Central Park and I still run it.
I did another one – I did a bigger version of that recently Ferry Point out in the Bronx. They were having – things have been under construction from anywhere between 20 and 30 years. They couldn’t get it done. I got it done under a year. It’s operating now. It’s very successful.
It’s what I do and that’s what we need. That’s what we need in our country.
I’m building on Pennsylvania Avenue an incredible hotel. One of the great hotels of the world. The Old Post Office site. Think of it. I got it in the Obama administration. Everybody was bidding. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA – general services. And I got it. Can you imagine me getting it from the Obama administration? Because the GSA, who are really professionals, they want to make sure number one that it got built. So they wanted strong financials. And they also wanted a great plan. So we came up with Ivanka and my kids we came up with this incredible plan. The job is under budget, ahead of schedule. It was going to open up in ’17 – sometime during the year ’17. Now, it’s going to open probably in September of ’16 right before the election on Pennsylvania Avenue.
And this is the kind of mindset you need.
Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.
We have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. Pfizer’s leaving the United States.
In the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, South Carolina. They’d leave New York or Florida or someplace where the taxes are lower. They’d leave for North Carolina. They’d leave – today they’d leave this country for other countries.
So now, we’re losing Pfizer. We’re losing many of our great companies.
We have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. And everybody agrees it should come home – the Democrats, the Republicans. For three years, they can’t make a deal. They can’t make a deal because there’s such gridlock. There’s no leadership in Washington.
We will make this country so great. We have people and I’ll tell you something. I’ll tell you something…[interrupted by protester] said something to me the other day and what I really want to do – [interrupted by protester] – what we want to do or what I want to do is I want to be the people’s president.
…Think of this, think of this, I don’t work for any of the lobbyists. I don’t work for any of these people that are leading our country in the wrong direction. We don’t.
…The best thing that I’ve seen in going around and the thing that I’ve seen more than anything else is how smart the people are. They don’t believe those people in the back that write with fork. I’m telling you, they don’t believe them. The people are really smart.
What’s giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people that I’ve met – the incredible people of this country.
We’re going to make America great again. And you know what? We’re going to make it greater, greater, than ever before. And I love you all and thank you very much. South Carolina. Great. Thank you! We love you. Thank you!

…We’re doing really well. Iowa’s been amazing. It’s been amazing. We’re doing so well and I love this place and I’m back here all the time and I’m going to be here a lot in January.
You’re going to be so sick of me. You’ll probably say, “We can’t give – the caucus, just forget it. We can’t stand the guy any more.”
No, you’re going to like me and we’re going to be back and we’re going to do a great job for you. Most importantly, we’re going to get to that office and we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to do the right thing.
So, a few things. A lot – so much has happened.
You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talking border security, which we’re just doing so great with the border security.
We’re going to build a wall. Mexico’s going to pay for the wall. We all know that. But we’re going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but they’re going to come into the country they’re going to be legal, they’re coming in legally, and that’s the way. That’s the way.
And it affects Iowa so much.
So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about repealing Obamacare. Boom. It’s going to be repealed. It’s going to be replaced.
I don’t know if you’ve been seeing what’s happening but Obamacare is a total disaster. It’s dying of its own weight.
And by ’17, meaning he’ll be playing golf and I’ll be working very hard. But ’17 instead you’re not getting the people signed up. There’s been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.
Obamacare’s dead but we’ll terminate it quicker than that.
And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.
Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless you’re close to death, you’ll never going to get to use. And even then I don’t think you’re going to get to use it really.
So, we’re going to take care of that.
And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really – we have the ethanol – where are the ethanol people? Right?
I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but it’s so important. And it’s another form of let’s stay away from OPEC and let’s stay away from that Middle East stuff. It’s so important…
Actually what I don’t understand because the one guy that’s doing pretty good with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and he’s a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he agrees with me. No matter what I say.
I was going to do one really wild but he agrees.
But with the ethanol, really, he’s got to come a long way because he’s right now for the oil.
But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. He’s got to be for oil, right? The oil companies give him a lot of money.
But I’m with you. I’m with everybody. Look, I’m self funding. I have no oil company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you know, they’re representing countries that are ripping off the country, they’re representing companies that are ripping off our country.
All I do is I’m going to be working for you folks. We’re going to do this thing together. We’re going to make America so great again and maybe better than ever before. So important.
So when we first started, I talked about China how they’re ripping us and Japan and Mexico.
Mexico both at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companies. Nabisco’s moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a big plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee – a great state – they took it away at the last moment.
I’m not going to let that stuff. We’re going to do what we have to do, okay?
But I talked about that…and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2.5 weeks ago with Paris, I’m speaking a little bit differently now.

Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. That’s easy for me. That’s what I do.
And we have all the cards. A lot of people don’t know. You know, these politicians they don’t understand we have the cards.
You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. It’s not supposed to be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But we’ll take care of that. We’ll take care of all of that.
What happened is with Paris, there’s a different mindset.
And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me.
Now, maybe it had to do – who knows why? Who knows?
But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever there’s something that I do that’s proper but controversial, they’d say “Oh, now he’s gone. That’s it. That’s the end.”
I won’t go over all of the different things because maybe you’ll change your minds.
But they’d say, “That’s it. It’s over.”
And then they’d come in, “Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week.” I said, “They did?” Because I have to do what’s right. I have to do what’s right.
And you know what? If I don’t make it, I don’t make it.
I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have a great family and I built a great business.
…There’s such spirit…There’s such spirit no matter where I go. You know, I go to Dallas. We have 20,000. 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 people in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is supposed to be…for like a record.
It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good…
…So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, big part of what I’m doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartness.
Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is “Make America Great Again” and I’m adding “Make America Great Again and Safe Again” because we don’t feel safe anymore.
And the problem we have now that we’ve never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. It’s the power. It’s the tremendous power.
You know, 100 years ago, I would have said “Let’s not go.” I said “Don’t go there” anyway. And I said it strongly “Don’t go. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East.”
But the fact is right now, we’re going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates.
And the press – look at all those cameras going all live, all – you know, nobody else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a speech, nobody cares. Look at this.
And don’t worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me. That’s why I’m walking around. I figured I’ll walk around maybe they’ll get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them “Pan the crowd”, they never do.
…I had a crowd 7,000 people last week. More. 7,000 people and in a confined space. They had 3,000 people outside that couldn’t get in. My wife says, “Darling, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there?” I said “What?” She said, “Well, they never leave your face.” They keep it purposely. But I’ll tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you can’t move them, right?
But every time there’s a protester “Well, I’m protesting” and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true.
No, I used to think they couldn’t move. You know, maybe there’s something with the crazy computers.
You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. You’d sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, bing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.
Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didn’t think they moved. I figured they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldn’t believe possible.
So, they’re very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of them.

I’ll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, they’re very dishonest.
You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write – so – it’s such misrepresentation. And so I don’t care. I mean, who cares? So I’m saying it right in their backyard. They’re failing anyway. They probably won’t be in business in two years. I think they’re losing a fortune. I think.
You know, it’s funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always do badly.
…I’m only doing this so they don’t sue me but I don’t mind if they do. I hope they sue me because they don’t have enough money to sue me. That’s the good thing.
But I believe and I may be wrong – in fact, I’ll say I’m sure I’m wrong but it’s my opinion that they don’t do it properly because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. I’ll explain it…You know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. “Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one.”
Now, I don’t know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register?
But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly with the Bloomberg polls. I don’t know why.
But we had a great poll come in – CNN last couple of days – where we’re leading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa.
And then we have another coming where we’re doing well.
But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says it’s coming out sometime. I’ll just tell you, watch – “Trump disappears!”
I think we’re going to do so well. I think we’re actually going to even do better. You know, we’re leading in most of the poll. We’re leading in every poll.
Except Iowa there was one poll – there was one poll, Monmouth – I’d never even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I don’t like Monmouth. You know why I don’t like it? Because they always treat me badly also.
But I only like polls that treat me well.
But we’re doing so well. Nationwide, we’re leading every poll by tremendous. We just had one in Georgia – 44%. 44%. Think of that. That’s 44% with 15 people. I’d take 44% if we had three people. I don’t think I’d take it if we had two people but I think I’d take if we had three. But 44%.
CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and we’re at 35% to a small number. We’re killing everybody in every poll. Just one little outlier here.
…Again, I’m sure when Des Moines comes out it’ll be a negative because I don’t believe that poll.
But we are going to win. And I’ll tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so important to me. I could say, “Oh, let’s not do” – I am an evangelical. I am a Christian. I’m a Presbyterian. I’m a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham.
Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He was so incredible. He came out – I don’t know if you all saw the statements he came out with about Trump…He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazing, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, there’s nobody, nobody that I’ve ever seen – Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybody’s gone to his crusades, they were incredible.
But so I think we’re going to do – we’re doing really well with the evangelicals…
And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba in all fairness. It’s true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nevertheless.
I think we’re going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. We’re doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party.
And we’re doing fantastic with all the young and middle. We’re doing great with everybody.
And so it’s very important for me to win Iowa.

Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, “Oh, I don’t care about Iowa. I don’t care.” But I do care. I do care so much about it. That’s why we’re here all the time.
And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. I said, “The people of Iowa can’t be that stupid or the people of the country can’t – “. I’m trying to make a point, right? So I said, “The people of the country can’t be that stupid.” Well, they cut the “country” out so it’s referring to Iowa.
I love you people. Remember that. Remember that.
I was talking about something, and I won’t even mention what I’m talking about because the guy I’m talking about and was actually a very good guy.
But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think we’d run the table. I really do. I think we’d run the table. We’d go right through.
Because we’re leading big in New Hampshire – every poll. Big. Big in New Hampshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. It’s the weirdest deal I’ve ever seen.
And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, “Are you sure about that? Nobody ever called us.” They can’t believe it. And we can get into that but it’s irrelevant.
But we’re leading New Hampshire big. We’re leading in South Carolina like monstrous numbers. We’re leading…Nevada. We’re leading in Texas. We’re leading everywhere. We’re leading big in Florida.
Now, you have Rubio – nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice guy but you’ve got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, you’ve got to go and vote. You can’t be the number one person that doesn’t vote in the Senate. You’ve got to say, “Hey, I’m a young guy. I want to go and vote.” You should stay there a little longer. He’s a good guy. Stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record.
But I don’t know. How’s he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? He’s not doing well. How’s Rubio doing? Not good.
I mean, it seems like a two-person race right now…and it’s an important race to me. So I just want to let you know it’s very important.
So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say we’d just go through. I think we’ll win virtually every state in the Union and it’s over quickly. Over quickly.
…What about the Republican establishment? The establishment’s got a problem, you know. It’s sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Sometimes they’ll go into the hometown of a guy they’re fighting and they’ll say, “You know, we’d never want to get a decision. We go for the knock-out. The knock-out is the knock-out.” Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a lot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and it’s a decision and they say, “Uh, we’re in a problem” and they’d lose the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely – knock out.
So, if we win Iowa, I think we’re going to win everything after that. So I think it’s going to show how important Iowa is.
…I’ll pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, I’ll pledge it, okay? I don’t think I’ve ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowa’s staying right where it is in the chain. It’s not moving. You know, there’s a big move to move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win it’s not happening, okay? You’re staying right here because it’s great. It’s great.

…We just did a big interview with CNN just before this. And you know, Hillary – was Hillary missing today? What happened? She was two hours late. No, did you hear?
Now, I may be wrong. If I’m one minute off, they’ll call me because they love Hillary. They love her. You know why. I don’t know why. Why? I’m trying to figure it. No, I heard she was a couple of hours late. Everybody left. You know what happened? She was sleeping. I’m telling you. She couldn’t get out of bed. She was sleeping. She was sleeping. Was right.
But we’re not going to cut your Social Security and we’re not cutting your Medicare. We’re going to take jobs back from all these countries that are ripping us off. We’re going to become a wealthy country again. And we’re going to be able to save your Social Security.
…I can’t believe this number but I read it over – who is the man that told me the number – over 6 million people – I can’t believe it – are aged 112 and over are getting Social Security…But I heard it. I read it. A tremendous – like 6 million people are getting Social Security. They’re dead. Meaning somebody else is picking up…
…The press is going to have to check it because what do I know? But can you imagine, we have 6 million – now, we know there’s not 6 million, there may be one. But there’s not 6 million.
Anybody in this room 112 or over? Because if they are, I want to shake your hand.
But – so 6 million over 112 years old picking up Social Security and that’s the beginning. So there’s tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse.
What we’re going to do is we’re going to save Medicare. We’re going to save Social Security. We’re not going to raise the age or we’re not going to do all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. They’re all talking about doing it, and you don’t have to. We’re going to bring our jobs back. We’re going to make our economy incredible again.
My tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and it’s gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups.
But we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for businesses because our middle class is being decimated.
And when that happens, you’re going to see an economy that takes off. We’re going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. But we’re going to get rid of it – you know, we’re at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right.
You know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasn’t even a word anybody knew and now it’s like routine.
So we are going to save your Social Security without cuts. We’re going to bring the economy back. We’re going to make ourselves rich again.
A woman said to me in New Hampshire recently, she said, “Mr. Trump, I’m voting for you. I love you. But it’s very crude when you say you’re going to make our country rich again.” I said, “I know it’s crude. It sounds bad. But many things I say are crude. It sounds bad. But we can’t make our country great again unless we make our country rich again. We can’t let everybody in the world rip us off.”

But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken our base. They’ve taken our manufacturing all over the place. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our money. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen.
I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the world. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, “Donald, I want to help. I want to help.” The smartest people call. We’re not going to use the special interest guy – a donor.
We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. Because again, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my campaign. Everybody else isn’t.
These guys – when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and the donors want.
That’s not going to happen with me.
So, Social Security – we’re saving it. Medicare – we’re saving it. We’re going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart.
Look, Hillary Clinton – you know this story. It’s a crime. She committed a crime.
Now, perhaps – perhaps – somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice Department and perhaps…we’ll have some really good Attorney General that’s going to say “Well, you know”.
Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she committed a crime in my opinion.
Now, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. She’s being protected absolutely. I have little doubt that they’re going to find anything. But they’ve already found it.
I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, “Yes, she violated section so and so”. Just one after another. I mean, actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws.
You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary Clinton did. Over nothing.
So I think she’s going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is whether or not she’ll be allowed to run. She’s being protected by the Democrats. She’s being protected by the President. And that’s why – why do you think she’s going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes along with everything.
I don’t even – honestly in all fairness to her, I don’t think she believes it. But I think she’s afraid he’s going to say, “Listen, I don’t like her anymore. Go take care of her. I’m going to get somebody else.” I’m telling you.
So, the question is statute of limitations. It’s a five year statute of limitations. She’s got a problem. She’s got a problem. In one way, she’s running for her life because I know one thing, if she wins that’s the end of that. Right? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem.

It’s not going to be – you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. It’s got to be beautiful because someday they’re going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that. It’s going to happen. Going to happen.
And it’s going to work. And walls do work.
You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldn’t get environmental impact statements. That’s just shows you.
China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? They’re not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. They’re not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying “We’re not doing business with you anymore.” Their whole economy would – you don’t have to go to war. It’s economics. The whole country would collapse in two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we don’t know it.
But they’re building massive – now, they had little islands. They put the biggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think they’re using Komatsu from Japan…They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine who’s Chinese from China – very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so I happen to like him, okay? – I said jokingly “How long did it take them to do these massive islands they’re building right out of the sea? Boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statements?” He laughed. He said, “What are you kidding me? Nothing.” They say “We will build there.” About two seconds later, you have escavators digging.
So we had a problem with environmental – look, I’ve won many environmental awards. I’m a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. I’m a big believer. Just so you know. Big. And I’ve gotten so many awards for the environment. So I understand the environment; I’ve won many, many awards.
But when you look at how we’re impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped because they couldn’t get an environmental impact statement among other things. They couldn’t get an environmental impact statement.
Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I don’t know. But they actually had people – a lot of people – people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldn’t get it done.
…You know, I said bomb the oil, right? I’ve been saying that for three years. Now finally they started – after Paris they started bombing the oil. I’ve been saying it for years.
You know one of the reasons we didn’t bomb the oil? Obama didn’t want to hurt the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thought a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didn’t want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today.
I’m telling you, folks, we’re being led by stupid people. We’re being led by stupid people.
I’ve been saying not really bomb – I’ve been saying take the oil. I didn’t want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said “Look, we shouldn’t have been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way.”
First of all, we have a president who told them a date. “We’re going to leave on such and such a date.” What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of sudden said, “Wow”, ‘cause don’t believe it. They don’t want to be killed. Okay? They don’t want to be killed. So the enemy said “They’re going to leave on a certain date?” So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. It’s a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq.
So anyway, I couldn’t believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces “We are sending 50 soldiers.”
Okay, first of all, he thinks it’s a good press announcement. It’s not. 50 soldiers – that’s not a lot even though they’re the elite. But those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a target on their heart.
Why does he have to say that for? Why can’t he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? Why can’t he just do that? Why can’t he do that?
Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably don’t even know that but everybody is looking for them and that’s the way it is.
We have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
We used to have General MacArthur – Douglas MacArthur – General George Patton. I mean, these were real people. These were real people.
Today, we have generals that go on talk shows…I saw a general the other day on a talk show. He said – and this was serious and he’s a good man. They’re good men. But you’ve got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have some power over them. He said, “We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness that we’ve been in in decades.” And this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to kill us.
And he said we are in the worst shape we’ve been in many, many decades.
Now, number one, he shouldn’t be saying that because you’re telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldn’t be saying it. We shouldn’t be saying it.
I mean, even if it’s true, you don’t say it. You get it fixed and you do the opposite.
One thing I’m going to do I’ll tell you, I’m going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful – so powerful that nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody is going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying with us right now. It’s the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest thing you can do.

…My sons are really great marksmen. They’re big believers. And I’m a member of the NRA but I’m not such a good shot. But they’re great shots so it’s one of those things.
But if you think about that question. So you know there’s tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. How about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine? …So the people will put three bullets in. I don’t think the bad guys are going to say, “Well, I don’t want to break the law. I’m going to go kill people today but I’m going to put three bullets in.” Right?
These people – and you know I have arguments with them all the time and I’m a practical guy. Honestly, if I didn’t believe this, I couldn’t say it.
So in France or in California, I have a permission to carry, which is a big thing in New York. It’s very hard to get. I have a license to carry.
But in France or in California or in all these places where we see the shooters, right, if instead of having like in France hundreds of people in that room – Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. Nobody has guns. Except the bad guys.
So they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have and they said, “Over here – boom. Over here – boom.” So they killed 128 but many more are dying right now. They’re in terrible shape in the hospitals. They just wipe the place out and they could’ve stayed there for longer. They wiped it out.
Then you had those two sleaze bags from California. The married couple. I saw the press – “The young married couple that did the shooting”. They’re not a young married couple. They’re the worst. They’re sleaze.
…They say “The young married couple”. That’s no young married couple.
So they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be dying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.
But if somebody had guns in there – nobody had a gun…How would you have done if you had a gun? Would you have been firing back a little bit? They’d been in trouble. Right? They would have been in trouble. Believe me. That guy.
So, you know, I went to like an Ivy League college and I have a lot of friends that are against guns and I argue with them. I talk to them. I said, “Okay, we’re in Paris. You have all these places and there’s hundreds of people. Guys walk in with guns and you have no gun. Don’t you think they would’ve been better if they had?” They can’t – they lose the argument but they never change their mind.
So we have to fight for the Second Amendment. It’s so simple. It’s so simple.
And believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always know that the bad ones are going to have the guns and they’re going to have them more so than ever before. So we’re going to protect the Second Amendment if I’m president. That I can tell you.
And by the way, we’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Do you ever notice?
…And by the way, Merry Christmas everybody. Merry Christmas. And happy holiday.
Frankly, I have a lot of friends that aren’t Christian. They like Christmas. Everybody likes Christmas. It’s politically incorrect to say Merry Christmas. But when I’m president, Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays, enjoy yourselves, don’t eat too much turkey. Right?
Okay, so we’re going to say Merry Christmas again folks. We’re going to bring that spirit back.

And I would say that we would certainly have things in mind for Ted, to be honest with you.
I mean, he’s somebody that I can certainly see that because I like him, he likes me. He actually put out a tweet tonight. He said “Donald Trump is” – I think he used the word – “terrific”. That’s a nice word. I mean, whoever hears that?
I can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. Right?
But then I got to be, you know, started going around and I see the corruption with these Super PACs, with the stuff towards money. People that put the money in are dealing with the candidates. The whole thing is wrong.
And I see it. I mean, Bush has $125 million. Think of it. $125 million. By the way, if he had $2 billion it wouldn’t make any difference. Okay?
But Bush has $125 million. And honestly, he’s a nice person. He is. I don’t want to do that but he’s a very nice person. But it’s $125 million. And you’d say to yourself, “People give $2 million, $5 million, $7 million. You know what’s happening.”
But some of the Super PACs are running campaigns. They’re actually running the campaign.
Another thing and it’s sort of interesting, one of the Super PACs I believe has $6 million. Of the $6 million – this was reported on the front page of the Los Angeles Times – one of the candidates who’s a nice person so I’m not going to mention the name. You know, when I like people I like them. I’m a very loyal person.
Of the $6 million after all of the bloodsuckers took their cuts, the fundraisers – can you believe this? – they had $140,000 left for the campaign. That’s better than being a real estate broker. I’d rather do that than sell houses. $140,000 left. That was in the newspaper. I don’t know. I think I believe it.
But I’ve seen it. I saw it with the Romney campaign. Guys made tens of millions of dollars raising money for Romney. I said what the hell is this? I mean, you give money and they get a cut.
Look, our laws are so corrupt. Our campaign finance laws are so totally corrupt. It’s so horrible. So horrible.
And I don’t necessarily want to stop people from giving because I think that’s a good thing but you have to get away from these PACs.
What you have to have is people have to know who it is. So you have to open up the process. Let people know. If somebody wants to give $1 million, you give $1 million but everybody has to know that so and so gave $1 million because that puts a little pressure on guys like Brad who raises hundreds of millions. Puts a little pressure.
But the concept of the PAC is no good. It’s no good. It’s a very dangerous, terrible thing. So we will change our laws because you really have no choice. It’s so out of control. It’s so terrible.
But the papers that are in this room tonight, they should look at this. There’s so little money left over for the candidates, it’s one of the reasons why I’m so happy I’m doing my own.
We actually sent legal letters to either nine or 11 PACs. The Trump PAC, the Trump PAC, the this PAC. First of all, I’m sure that out of some of them they stole the money. Some guy has no money. He sets up a Trump something PAC. Nothing to do with me. Sets it up. All of a sudden he’s got $2 million sitting there. Right? People send in money. And that guy has no money. How much of that money do you think he’s going to use to do what he’s supposed to be doing? That’s common sense. So maybe all of it but I doubt it.
So we sent legal notices to every one that we could find. We don’t want their money. We said “Don’t do it. We don’t want it. And we want ideally to give the money back to the people that gave it to you.”
But the Super PAC concept is corrupt. It’s terrible and it should be ended. And we’re going to go to new campaign finance laws that are going to be terrific. Okay? Thank you.

And I’m not. I’m totally in favor.
And you know, it’s a big industry here. It’s a big industry.
You know, if that industry is upset, Iowa’s got problems.
I was amazed. I was here three weeks ago with the group…They were such amazing people…And I learned so much about it. I was in favor of it even before…
…Beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, tremendous numbers of jobs in Iowa. And I said to myself, if Ted Cruz is against ethanol, how does he win in Iowa? Because that’s very anti-Iowa. I don’t know how he wins in Iowa. I don’t know.
No, but I’m totally for it. Okay? Thank you.

Once I said I’m running, they said “What? You’re not supposed to run.”
And then what happened – I ran against all these Senators and Governors. And everyone said “Well, I don’t know.” My wife said “If you run, you’re going to win” because she understands that I like people – I love people and people love me. And she said “You will run but you actually have to go and run. You have to announce you’re running because nobody’s going to believe you’re running.”
And so I didn’t want to announce because I didn’t want to like announce and things didn’t work out and I’m like some of these guys where they’re zero. Many of them zero.
And so finally I said, “Look, let’s – we’re going to do it. We have to do it.”
Just too many things that I watch on television with our president and the decisions that are made – Bergdahl – where we get Bergdahl and they get five killers. We get this horrible, dirty rotten spy – horrible traitor. We get this horrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that they’ve wanted for nine years – the worst killers – and they’re all back on the battlefield.
You know, so many decisions. The Iran deal. The Iran deal. How bad is that? They self-inspect. “Okay, good. We’re not building. We promise we’re not building nuclear weapons.” “Oh, okay. That’s okay.”
And we give them $150 billion and we don’t even get our prisoners back. The whole thing is crazy. So I saw this. And I said to my wife, “Hey, I don’t know if I’ll do well or not. Who the hell knows?”
And it’s a risky thing. And I’ve always heard if you’re a very successful person you can’t run for office, especially for president, and I see it all the time. And the people go after me. I don’t even care at this point. I said, “I have to do it. Now, we’re going to have to do it.”
And I look at it last time with Romney and I didn’t do it and I probably should have because he let us down. I mean, look, he let us down.
That was an election – we had a failed president. Four years ago he was a failed president, just as bad as he is now. It’s true. And Romney let us down. That last month – it was like he wasn’t even campaigning.
I said, “Why aren’t you on Jay Leno? Why aren’t you on David Letterman? Why aren’t you doing it?” And he just didn’t do it. So he lost the election.
So I backed McCain, he lost. I backed Romney, he lost. This time I said I’m doing it myself, okay? We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
But there is an establishment out there. It’s a real establishment. Real people. And they’re people that are used to having their little puppets all over the place. And they’re people that are used to giving donations and having control.
And they’re people that, you know, look when they call me I’ll treat them with respect but I’m not going to be doing bad things if it’s bad for the country. I’m not going to let Ford build a plant in Mexico if I can keep it in Michigan.
And I’m not going to let the car companies and Nabisco and all these people and all these companies – I’m all for free trade. I think it’s great. I’m for it. But it’s got to be smart trade. I’m not going to let them move to Mexico and then sell stuff over the border with no tax, no nothing so we lose our jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come through. How does that help us, folks? I went to the best business school in the world. Believe me, it doesn’t help us. Okay? Trust me.
And we’re not going to make deals like that anymore. We can’t. We owe $19 trillion. We can’t.
So the establishment is not ever probably – look, you know what? In the end, if this country starts humming even the establishment they’ll be saying “Okay, it’s a good thing” because they’ll be beneficiaries also.
But we do have a real establishment and they’ve never seen this happen before.
A writer called up and he said recently – I told this story. I mean, one of the top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and beyond. And he said, “Mr. Trump, how does it feel?” I said, “How does what feel?” “How does it feel? What you’ve done has never, ever been done before?” I said, “What have I done?” “You’ve dominated the Summer of Trump.” Now they call it the Autumn of Trump.
Hopefully, they’re going to call it the Spring of Trump and I want the next Autumn of Trump.
But I said to the writer, “I don’t know what you’re talking about. I haven’t done anything ‘cause frankly if I don’t win I consider this to be a total waste of time.” I’ll be honest with you. As much as I like being with you tonight. Because we won’t be able to do anything.
He said, “No, no. You’ve won even if you don’t win. You’ve won already.” I said, “No, you’re wrong. If I don’t win, I have wasted my time.”
So you know, the point is that the establishment can’t believe it because they’ve never seen it happen before.
…I was on the cover of Time Magazine four or five weeks ago and Time Magazine was going to pick the Person of the Year. Everybody – even my enemies – said “Trump is going to win.” I said, “I won’t win.” They said, “Why?” “I won’t win. Just like I should have gotten the Emmy for The Apprentice for the first three years. I was nominated. I should have.” And I said, “I’ll never win.” I told everybody I’ll never win because I’m not Hollywood establishment.
And with Time Magazine, I said – Bill O’Reilly, who’s a great guy, did an editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has done more than Trump, he should have won.
Now, I’m not saying I should have – yeah, I probably should have in all fairness – but he said “Nobody’s done more” – you know, taking over – what we’ve done has been amazing – all of us together not just me. It’s all of us. It’s all of us. From Dallas and Mobile and Oklahoma. All of us. Because the spirit.
…Well, Merkel got it. Now, Merkel, what did she do? She’s destroyed – I mean, she’s in the process of destroying Germany with the migration.
We have to help the people with the migration. We have to create a safe zone some place in Syria. But I don’t want them coming into this country. I don’t want them because we don’t know who they are. We don’t know who they are. Them with their printing press that now do the forged passports. Okay? You heard about that. So we don’t know.
The bottom line on that – it’s such an interesting question. You’ll know in about a month or two whether or not the establishment has treated me fairly.
But the only thing I can say is this: If I win Iowa, I think it’s over. I said before. Because I think if I win Iowa, New Hampshire is amazing. People are amazing. You would love the people. They would love you. You’d love everybody. The whole country is in love…I call it the noisy majority. It’s no longer a silent majority. It’s the noisy majority.
But if we win like I think we’re going to win because we have such a big league, honestly, it’s not going to matter. They can’t do anything. I don’t care about the establishment. They can’t do anything.
You know, the only way they can do is if I’m a little bit short, if I’m two votes short I have a problem because I’ll have to go into that convention, I’m dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and they’ll make their deals and they’ll have all their money guys around and they’ll be in the backroom making deals.
But if I get the number of delegates, there’s not a thing they can do. And I’ll end up doing fine with the establishment…

You know, I had an uncle who was a professor at MIT who was a brilliant guy…In fact, I just retweeted an article about him today. You’ve got to read it. Okay? @RealDonaldTrump. You have to read it.
When I see somebody like Jeb – no I’ll tell you one thing I respect. He didn’t change his views. He knew he was getting killed on this issue and he didn’t change. And I respect that to a certain extent. But it’s so wrong.
Common Core is a total disaster. We have people – bureaucrats in Washington – telling you how your child should be educated in Iowa and New Hampshire and all of the different places that we go to. It’s ridiculous.
And I go around and I’ve seen the principals. I’ve seen so many students and teachers and professors and principals, and I’ve seen some of the people and the love – even in Iowa at a school – I’ve seen some of the love these parents give to those schools. This is real love. These are smart people. And these are people that aren’t working for a paycheck. These are incredible people…
Remember this: Our educational system is a mess. We spend more money per pupil as a government than any other country in the world and we’re in 28th place. And I mean like double what anybody else pays.
So I want to bring education back to the local areas. You’re going to have parents and you’re going to have unbelievably talented people and they love their kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because it’s so important. And you’re going to be very happy with it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you.

You know, the whole grid is a disaster. Right? The whole country. The infrastructure of our country is falling apart.
And nobody can build like me. It’s what I do. I build. I build.
I’m building on – as you know – Pennsylvania Avenue a big tremendous hotel that I got from the government of the United States. Can you believe it? During the Obama administration a couple of years ago.
But we had the best plan. The GSA is terrific. They’re very good. Actually, they’re very talented people.
We’re under-budget and ahead of schedule. That’s what we do.
When you see these things where they’re building a bridge and it’s going to cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. How about when they build a hospital and it costs $3 billion?
And I look at it – I’m very good – I can look at a building and tell you how much it’s going to cost.
I say “$250 million.” “No, sir, $3 billion.” $3 billion? Think somebody got rich on that one?
So we’re going to stop all this stuff. We’re going to make our country so strong and so wonderful. And we all love it anyways. We love it.
But it’s so sad to see what’s happening. It’s so sad. And we’re going to change it around.

So they’re borrowed up to the hilt and they can’t get jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from China. We’re going to bring our jobs back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from South America. We’re bringing them back from Mexico. We’re going to have jobs again. Believe me. We’re going to be manufacturers again.
We’re going to start making Apple computers in this country. What the hell good does it do to make them in China? I want to make them in this country and we have the ability to do it.
So, we’re going to bring our jobs back. Okay?
We have had no matter where we go – you know, it’s a movement folks. This is a movement.
No matter where we go it’s amazing.
We go to Dallas. We go to Oklahoma. We go all over. We went to the other night Iowa – packed. Every place. New Hampshire. Packed. Every place we go to it’s like this. It’s amazing and just great, great people.
And they actually had to tell over 3,000 people “Go home. We’ll come back. We’ll do another one.” But they had to go home. Would you like to leave and we’ll let them come in?
No? I didn’t think so.
But they turned away a lot of people, which is too bad actually. So maybe next time – I don’t know I think this is the largest room. I know it’s a record for the room. You know it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with people and they’re standing; they’re not sitting. So that’s great.
We love setting records. We want the country to set records. Right?
So you know, I do this and I love to do it and I talk about our success because that’s ultimately what it’s all about.
I think we’re going to do fantastically well in Iowa. I really think we’re going to do great there.
And I could say, “Oh, gee, if we came in the top 4 or 5” – I’m not – I’m looking to win everything. We want to run the table. We want to run them. Because that sends a signal.
And you know, we’ve been a little bit – we had to respond to Hillary. She came out with that – she came out – remember she wrote – she said, “He’s demonstrated a penchant” – I demonstrated a penchant – “for sexism.” Can you believe it? Me.
Nobody respects women more than Donald Trump. That I can tell you.
And you know, when she said that I had no choice because I didn’t start it. I had no choice and I did have to mention her husband’s situation. Okay?
And that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10.
So we have to do it.
You can’t let people push you around. You can’t let people tell lies. You can’t do it.
You know, it’s interesting. One of the polls came out from CNBC and they said that if it’s Trump against Hillary in the election, it will be the greatest voter turnout in the history of this country. I can see that. I can see it.
And they said all of these people that are going to come in new – that never vote – they never vote, they don’t care. They’re going to mostly – I’ll tell you what, they’re going to vote for Trump. That’s why they’re coming in because they’re so fed up with the system, this corrupt, horrible system. They’re fed up with it.
And they’re fed up with those guys back there – the media. They are the worst. They are the worst.
No, no, no, they’re fed up. They’re fed up with the media.
…And you know not all bad but there’s so much dishonesty in the media, and I like to call it out.
And one of the things that’s really been amazing to me and it’s been such – it’s been so beautiful to watch – the level of genius in the public. They get it. You know? They really get it.
They want to marginalize us. They want to do all of this. And they want to make everybody look like “Oh, gee”.
The level of genius. They fully understand. They know they’re crooked. They know they’re dishonest. And they really – otherwise, who gets worse publicity than me? And yet I see a poll at 42%. And you’re talking about 15, 16 people – started with 17…And you know, I’d be happy with 42% if we had three. Okay? Not thrilled. I’d like to be over that 50% mark but I think we’re doing really well.
And you know it’s interesting – but the debates – okay?
…I love you…You know, the rooms – no matter where, whether it’s stadiums or big ballrooms like this one. It’s amazing. And there’s love in the room.
…The other night, I said – a friend of mine – a very, very successful guy who I would love to have negotiating against China. That’s what we need. Not these hacks that we have.
You know, I have guys – Carl Icahn endorsed me. Great businessman. I have great, great business people that want to be involved. And we’re going to use – we have the best. We have the best in the world but we don’t use them. We use political hacks. We use special interest people that really don’t care about the country. They care about their deals. This is going to change so fast.

You know last year, $500 billion trade deficit with China. $500 billion. You know what $500 billion is? You do hundred dollar bills and you fill the room to the ceiling. $500 billion deficit – trade deficit with China.
What are we? I guess the answer is certainly let’s not blame us. Our leaders are stupid and/or…they have deals.
Because what’s happened is all of this money is being given to them by special interests, by all of these people including lobbyists. And these lobbyists make our leaders do – our leaders – can you believe this our leaders? But they make the leaders of our country do things that they don’t even want to do because they’ve given them tens and tens and tens of millions of dollars.
When I look at this guy Jeb Bush, he spent $59 million on his campaign and he’s down in the grave. He’s nowhere. No, no, think of it. It’s got to be much more than that. It was actually $59 million a while ago.
Every time I turn on an ad, I see an ad about Trump. I mean, it’s not that bad an ad either. It’s like – we’ve got to do an ad, do an ad.
Look, he’s a low energy person. Let’s face it. We don’t need low energy. We need lots of energy.
But he’s spent – think of it, think of it – he’s spent $59 million. I spent nothing. Right? Nothing.
Now, I’m going to be spending. You probably saw it. We’re going to start spending a lot of money because I don’t want to take any chances…I love getting up and for the last couple of months, I’ve been leading from practically the time I announced. Right?
And for the last – and leading a lot. I’m going to go over that because I go over polls. I love polls. I love polls.
Now when – if they turn negative, I don’t like them. And I promise if they turn negative, I’m not going to be talking about them.
In fact, I get criticized all the time. “You’re always talking about your polls.” One of these guys has got 2%. He’s at 2%. I’m at 42%. And one of these guys who’s at 2% said “He always talks about his polls, and I don’t.” And I wouldn’t either if I have 2%. I swear I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t do it at all.
But you know, I love to tell the story where I’ve spent nothing and Bush has spent $59 million but much higher than that. That’s just. You know, because I see since them. You can’t turn on this television without these commercials on Fox. Every two minutes it’s a commercial on Trump.
You know what he did? It’s false advertising.
So I killed him in the debate. According to Reuters, according to everybody, Drudge, who’s an amazing guy by the way, if you don’t know Drudge – Matt Drudge – right? He’s a great guy. But Drudge – 46%. 46%, you have 15 people.
Now, you noticed a couple of them have dropped out…But 15, 16 people – 46%. Time Magazine – 49%. Think of it. Slate – 51%. U.S. News and World Report – 69% said I won the debate…PBS – Public Broadcasting System – 69% said Trump won.
You know, it’s amazing. We have Washington Times said 62%. CBS – 59%. Fox – 62%. Fox Las Vegas – 62%.
So they all say – and I go back home. After that, I like to see how did I do. Did I look good? Looking good is very important. Right? Sometimes it’s not as much like what you say it’s how you look. I look good. Didn’t sound too good. But that’s okay…
But I go home and I watch and the pundits will say – I mean, they can’t totally kill me because I know what’s happening, we know what’s happening. “Well, Mr. Trump was okay tonight.” I won every, every single online poll. I won.
And then here’s Bush. So Bush does an ad and he takes me and he was talking about, you know, something and he made a statement then I killed him…By the way, I’m at 69%. He’s at 1%. He got, he came in last. He takes the ad and I shouldn’t even talk about him. He’s down to two or three but it bothers me when I see a guy spending, you know, $60 million on ads against me a lot of it. Right?
I said, “Why is he doing this? Doesn’t he have something better? He should go home, just relax.” No, honestly, he should go home and relax. He shouldn’t be wasting his time. But it does.
I said, “Why is this guy spending all this money?” Now he’s spending it actually against a couple of other guys. They were also very weak…But here’s my ad. So he made a statement and after that his spin people said “Oh, he was great. He took on Trump.” He took on Trump? I’m standing here. He’s over there. Took on Trump. He made a statement that was written by his pollster. You know? He said, “Mr. Trump, why don’t you this – “
I said okay. Then I gave him an answer. I said, “Jeb, I’m at 42%. You’re at 2%.” Right? It’s a simple answer.
“You started off here right next to me. And then you were there, then you were there. By the next time, you’re going to be off the stage.”
No, no, it’s true.
And then that was it. I responded. So he asked me a question. The question was fine. You know, professionally written. So he asked me a question. I give him an answer. I blow him away. Right? Everybody says Trump won the debate. Everybody. And that’s it.
And the ad is him asking the question and I’m standing here like this because I haven’t – in fact you see in one of them I’m just about ready to open my mouth. But he doesn’t let me respond. That’s almost false advertising. Isn’t it?
So I mentioned it.
Hillary is a disaster. I mean, Hillary – Hillary’s controlled by her money. So is Jeb. By the way, I’m the only one self-funding my campaign. I’m self-funding.
You know, one of the things that makes me happy, I heard one of the commentators this morning said, “You know, I’ve been watching this stuff for 50 years. I’ve never seen anything like what’s happened with Trump.”
…I think low energy was a brutal statement. Right? And by the way, low energy can be applied to Hillary. I just don’t like to use the same thing twice on one of my enemies. Right? Because I consider them enemies. We view this as war. Don’t we view this as war? It’s war. It’s war. So you don’t like to use it. I hate to give it up…
So here’s the story. So we are in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where our trade deals are killing us, our military is not prepared. Gen. Odierno when he left just recently he said we are less prepared now than at anytime that he can remember, and I think he went back to the beginning. But let’s say Second World War. Okay? That’s enough.
Now we should be very prepared now because the world hates us. She has done a terrible job as Secretary of State.
I mean, think of it. Putin comes out, he said, “Donald Trump is brilliant. He’s doing an amazing job and he’s leading the pack.” Okay. That’s nice.
And she and my opponents say “Oh, isn’t that terrible that Putin said – “ Wouldn’t it be nice if we could get along with the world? Wouldn’t it be? Seriously? No, no. Wouldn’t it be nice?
I mean, they want me to refuse his statement. “How dare you say I’m brilliant.” Who’s going to do that? And by the way, if he said it about any one of them, they would have been very happy.
But the point is we have to get along. The world has blown up around Barack Obama.
Now, I don’t know if you saw his recent release. They were talking about the Department of State. State Department. And they said very strongly, you know, the things that they’ve done. Well, they couldn’t find it because what have they done that’s good? And they said bringing peace to Syria. Did you see that?
So instead of saying they made a mistake, call it a typo, they made a mistake, they’re trying to justify it. “Well, we meant we’re working on it.” Can you believe? Bringing peace to Syria. The world is blowing up. The migration in Syria. They say one of their achievements of the year is bringing peace to Syria. And the whole world is talking about it. It’s the level of stupidity is incredible.
I’m telling you. I used to use the word incompetent. Now, I just call them stupid.
I went to an Ivy League school. I’m very highly educated. I know words. I have the best words. I have the – but there’s no better word than stupid. Right? There is none. There is none. There’s no word like that.
So, we are going to turn things around.
But if we have Hillary, I’ve got to tell you, I just saw where for the last week she’s been hitting me really hard with the women card. Okay? Really hard.
And I had to say, “Okay, that’s enough. That’s enough.” And we did a strong number. She’s not going to win.
And by the way, I love the concept – I love, love, love having a woman president. Can’t be her. She’s horrible. She’s horrible.

And you know who really don’t – I’ll tell you who does not like…Yeah, we’ll get Ivanka. Let’s do Ivanka.
But I’ll tell you who doesn’t like Hillary are women. Women don’t like Hillary. I see it all the time.
And always so theatrical. “Mr. Trump said this and that and this.” Ugh. And you just – I actually – I shouldn’t do it. I just have to turn off the television so many times. She just gives me a headache.
But you know, although I think last night I gave her a big headache. I could imagine. I could imagine those discussions.
But you have to hit back hard and you can’t let them push you around. And today she gave a speech and she never even mentioned my name.
You know the debate I was mentioned nine times. I mean, everything through all of them but her. I was mentioned nine times. None of the other candidates were mentioned.
And then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. But she’s playing that card and then I had to hit her back. So I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse. No, it’s tremendous abuse. I mean you look at it. It’s tremendous abuse and I talked about that.
And now, today the television is going crazy. And she gets up, makes a speech that doesn’t even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else? I wonder why. I wonder why.
And remember this. It’s really important. A poll just came out where we’re tied. Another one came out a couple of weeks ago – Fox – where I’m leading by 4 or 5 points against her individually. We’re doing great. I haven’t even focused on her yet.
Look at the people I focused on. I don’t want to really knock them. I don’t want to mention their names. But you know, of all the people that were all gone, they were all people that attacked me.
Wouldn’t be nice if our country could have that same thing? You attack and they’re – poom – gone. And if we could do it verbally, you know, if we could do it verbally that’s even better. Right?
You know, who wants to use our military? By the way, we are going to build the strongest, the best, the most powerful military ever. Ever. Ever. Ever.
And we’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to take care of our vets. Because they are being treated horribly.
But we’re going to build the strongest, most powerful military ever – let me just tell you, let me just tell you a little secret. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. We’re never going to have to use it. I don’t think we’re going to have to use it.
Don’t forget. They talk about my tone. I remember when Jeb and Hillary the same day – “Mr. Trump’s tone is not nice.” They’re chopping off Christians’ heads in Syria and other place, and they want me to have a nice tone. I’m supposed to be always – isn’t life wonderful? Okay?
Look, we’ve got to be tough. We’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to have heart too. We’ve got to have heart. We’ve got to take care of people.
We’ve got to fix our health care program. This Obamacare is a disaster. You people know. You people know…It’s going to be repealed and replaced. It will die in ’17 anyways. I don’t know if you’ve heard what’s happening but it’s so bad all the people that they didn’t think were signing up are signing up and the other people that are really paying for it aren’t signing up. And your rates are going up 25%, 35%, 45%. Your deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by a tractor, you’re never going to be able to use your deductible. You’re never going to be able to use it.
So Obamacare is a disaster. We’re going to repeal it. We’re going to replace it. There’s so many great things we can do on health care. So many great things.
And it’ll cost you much less money and it’ll be great. It’ll be great.
I mean, you’re signing into programs and things that you’ll never ever use. You know that. And you’re paying for it and you’ll never ever use them. So we’ll get that straighten out.
We’re going to straighten out a lot of things. We’re going to straighten out Common Core. Common Core is dead. It’s going to be dead. It’s going to be dead.
When I look at parents and I see local parents in Iowa and New Hampshire and South Carolina – I went to a school and I saw the parents, they love their children. They want to educate – they love – they don’t care about money. They don’t care about anything. They love their children. And it’s local. And they get together and they do wonderful programs. They’re smart people. As opposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big fat checks in Washington. I mean, we have such talent in this country and we don’t use it.
So Obamacare – dead. Common Core – gone. We’re going to get rid of it. Department of Education – we’re going to get rid of it. We’re bringing education to a local level.
One thing about education – so in the world, we are ranked number 28. There are third world countries that are ranked better than us in education and many other things.
And yet, per pupil, we are number one by far. There’s nobody close. Number two isn’t even close. So we spend more money per pupil than any country in the world and we’re ranked number 28, which is way down, way down the bottom essentially.
Can you imagine? We’re ranked number 28. We’re number one.
And that’s what I do like saying about my campaign. I spend less money than anybody else and I have the best result. I’m number one by a lot and I spend no money. I mean, my plane costs me some money but I spend no ads. Took a little radio ad in Iowa. But I didn’t do that. I think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. But I spend essentially no money and then you have all these other guys spending vast – and they’re like the way the United States is run.
Now why would we put a guy like Jeb, like some of the others – it’s not only Jeb Bush – they spend money.
I see Rubio the ads all day long. You know, the black background. He’s got like a black thing…No, no. And I like him. I think he’s a nice guy. But I see these ads, you know, with the backdrops and it’s just somber. It’s not good. I don’t think it’s good.
So figuring I spend no money and I’m number one. Others spend – they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they’re not even in the race. That’s what we need for our country.
…You know, the only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Because I always have – look at this ballroom – packed. I always have the biggest crowds. And I go home and my wife said, “Were there many people? I watched you on television tonight.” I said, “I had 20,000 people – the whole arena.” She said, “They didn’t show it. They have it right on your face.”
So I have 20,000 people. I had 20,000 in Oklahoma, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama, nobody knows because those cameras they run in your face. And I think they can’t move. I think they’re maybe fixed because modern cameras maybe – except every time there’s a guy who stands up protesting, you know, they’re on drugs or something because some of these guys they don’t even know what the hell they’re doing there, all of the sudden the cameras swerve and they’re perfect shots. And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So you know, sometimes I think I’m going to put in some false protesters. I’ll put in some friendly protesters. It’s the only way I’m going to be able to get them to –
So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked about a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and in Trump Tower, the famous escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president, I’ll tell you. You know, it’s like I never did this before.
And then…the debate. We had the largest debate. We had the largest audience in the history of cable television.
Then CNN a couple of weeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million. The largest audience in the history of CNN. Now, they’re there, the cameras are live right now. You know, the largest audience in the history of CNN.
Now the debates used to be – you go back four years or eight years, you know whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted it – they didn’t want the debates. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the debates…But now they’re drawing 24 million. Now they want to have more debates. “Oh, can we have more? Can we have more? Can they go three hours?” Remember? When they had the one go three hours? I said, “No, I’m not doing three hours. It’s too long.” Who wants – I could stand up here for 50 hours but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of this stuff? Right?
“Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?” Oh great, thanks.
And by the way, that question – I hate those questions. You know why? Because I want to be unpredictable. I don’t want to tell ISIS what I’m going to do to knock the hell out of them. I hate it. I hate it.
Remember, I said very strongly…for four years…”Get the oil. Get the oil. Get the oil.” Because who’s going to get the oil? Iran is taking over Iraq.

We made a deal for Iran done by some of the dumbest people on Earth on our side. We gave them everything. We don’t even get our prisoners back. And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it? I go crazy. We would’ve gotten them back.
All you have to do is say, “We want our prisoners back.”
They would have said no. I would’ve said “I want them back. You don’t understand me. I want them back.” They would have said “No, we won’t do that.” I would’ve said “Bye bye” and I would have left. Then I would have doubled up the sanctions and I guarantee you – I guarantee you that within 24 hours they would’ve called back and they’ll say “You’ve got your prisoners. Can we talk?”
And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them the money…They don’t have to make nuclear. They can buy it. Why do they have to make it?
Then we have the nuclear where they self-inspection. How about the area – the big area – they don’t want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They don’t want us there. So they self-inspect. Okay?
Then they have the 24 day inspection.
But the self-inspection is the beauty. “We think you’re making nuclear weapons here.” “Well, let us go check, Mr. President. We’ll check. No, sir, we’re not making nuclear weapons. Nobody…no, we would never do a thing like that.”
These are people that have deceived us. They have lied to us. They are a terrorist state.
But – and I used to say it’s the worst deal that I’ve ever seen negotiated.
And by the way, just to finish – prisoners. So they come back, we get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal’s done. It’s all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get – and what did they say? They said very strongly they said “We are going to want a lot for the prisoners. We’re starting off. We’re going to want a lot.”
Now, we’ve already taken off the sanctions. They’re already rich as hell. What’s going on there?
That’s why I say, I mean, some people say it’s worse than stupidity. There’s something going on that we don’t know about. I mean, honestly.
And you’re almost thinking – I’m not saying that and I’m not a conspiracy person…I’m just hoping they’re just stupid people. Okay? Which they are. Or there’s something going on because it’s inconceivable.
You know, do you ever see something that are so bad that it can’t be? That nobody can do what they did. Right? Nobody.
So, Iran now wants to negotiate separately for the – in other words, that deal is done and now we want to start a whole new deal. And they want a lot. “We want a lot.”
And I just – I want to just shoot the television, you know? Because they would have had it just for saying.
And you know when they ask Kerry and Obama – the deal was made. Everybody knows it’s a horrible deal. It’s going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation. And they’re so rich now. You know, they became $150 billion – they became so rich.
And many other things that you don’t even know about. Most people don’t even know what the agreement says.
But I’ll tell you what, when you look at what we’re doing, we’re not going to have – if we keep going like this, folks, we’re not going to have a country left. We’re not going to have a country. We’re not going to have our country.
And we’re like a dumping ground for the world. We’re a dumping…
Okay, so Gaddafi, they backed rebels who end up killing the Ambassador and the other young people. You know, the Ambassador was riding in a Jeep. One of our Jeeps, of course. A military Jeep, holding the Libyan flag, and you know, “Freedom! Freedom! Freedom!” and then he gets killed by the same people.
So we backed people that turned out to be far worse than Gaddafi. Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq.
I mean, what the hell did we get? We spent $2 trillion. And that was as of 1.5 years ago. I keep saying $2 trillion. It’s a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion. We have thousands of deaths. And I’m not even talking other side. You’re talking about other side you’re talking about hundreds of thousands – maybe millions.
You have thousands of deaths. We have wounded warriors who I love. These guys are the toughest. These are the greatest people. Now, these are the greatest people.
And then what happens? We leave. And we have a president that announces the date of when we’re leaving.
So I said, “Man, if I’m the enemy, I’m just going to go away for 18 months.” Right? And he gave a date. “We are leaving Iraq. We will be gone by such and such a time.”
I’m just sitting there watching and I’m saying, “Man, that’s really stupid.” Because believe me, the enemy doesn’t want to be killed. You know, you hear so much – “Oh, they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go.” Right? They don’t want that. They want to live. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families. Always their families. Remember that. Because their families know what’s going on. Okay?
Okay? You think their wives don’t know what they’re planning? You think their kids don’t know exactly what daddy’s doing when daddy’s going to fly into the World Trade Center. You think they don’t know? They know exactly what’s going on. Remember that.
And frankly, I think they have more love for their family’s lives than they do for their own life. Okay?
But they still want to live.
So here’s Obama – gives an exact date. He gives an exact date. So they pulled back. And everyone says, “Oh, we’re doing so well. Look, we’re doing so well.”
The enemy – why should they fight when they know in 18 months they can go and take the place.
So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of the oil. I said, “Take the oil.” Remember, when we left – I was opposed going in because I said you’re going to destabilize the Middle East because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they’ll fight. They’re always fighting, for decades and decades, for generations. They fight. That’s what they do. They fight.
How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe.
They fight. And they were equal militarily. They go this way 10 feet. They go this way 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years. Then they start fighting again.
Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. “Oh, he’s using gas.” They go back and forth. It’s the same. And they were stabilized.
And I said, “If you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, you’re going to destabilize the Middle East. It’s what’s going to happen. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East.” And that’s exactly what happened. We totally destabilized the Middle East.
We have now migrations largely because of what’s happened afterwards.
You know, Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in. We should have never gotten in. But we shouldn’t have gone out the way we went out. And we shouldn’t have given dates.
I mean, I would have probably said, “We’re going to stay forever” and they would have said, “Oh man, keep going, keep going” and eventually they would get tired. They’d say, “This guy’s crazy. I mean, he’s never going to leave” and you’ll make a deal.
But when you’re announcing you’re leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they’d just pull back and as soon as we left, they come in. Okay?
So they have the oil. You know who the biggest beneficiary of the oil is? Right? China. China. Always China.
I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for us.
We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall. We’re going to build a wall. We’re going to have a border. And people are going to come into our country but they’re going to come in through a legal process. They’re not coming in the way they’re coming in now. Just walking in like nothing. They’re going to come in but they’re going to come through a legal process.
So with Iraq, so we give them a date and they take over. We didn’t take the oil.
So for four years, I’ve been talking about it. Then because of Paris all of a sudden they started bombing the oil.
But I didn’t want to just bomb the oil. I want to take the oil. They’re bombing. You know, we’re bombing. Great. What’s going to happen after that? So we’re bombing.
And you know, we’re not really bombing it because they’re still selling it. I said, “How can they keep selling it?” “Obama doesn’t want to hit him too hard because he’s afraid he’s going to pollute the atmosphere.”
No, this is serious.
Now, think of it. He talks about the carbon…and yet he’ll fly a very old Air Force One – an old Boeing 747 with the old engines, you know, spewing stuff.
So he’s got a problem with the carbon footprint. You can’t use hairspray because hairspray is going to affect the ozone.
Let’s see. I’m in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so that I could…Right? But I hear where they don’t want me to use the hairspray. They want me to use the pump because the other one, which I really like better than going bing, bing, bing, and then it comes out in big globs, right? And then you’re stuck in your hair and you say, “Oh my God, I have to take a shower again. My hair’s all screwed up.” Right?
I want to use hairspray. They say, “Don’t use hairspray. It’s bad for the ozone.”
So I’m sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit. You know, I really do live in a very nice apartment. Right? But it’s sealed. It’s beautiful. I don’t think anything gets out and I’m not supposed to be using hairspray.
But think of it. So Obama is always talking about the global warming, that global warming in our biggest and most dangerous problem. Okay?
No, no, think of it. I mean, even if you’re a believer in global warming, ISIS is a big problem. Russia is a problem. China is a problem. We’ve got a lot of problems.
By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem. He actually has nuclear weapons. Right? That’s a problem.
We’ve got a lot of problems. We’ve got a lot of problems. That’s right. We don’t win anymore. He said, “We want to win.” We don’t win anymore. We’re going to win a lot. If I get a elected, we’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win so much. We’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win so much you’re all going to get sick and tired of winning. You’d say, “Oh no, not again.” I’m only kidding. You never get tired of winning. Right?
But think of it. So Obama is talking about all of this with the global warming and that. A lot of it is a hoax. It’s a hoax. I mean, it’s a money making industry, okay? It’s a hoax. A lot of them.
Look, I want clean air and I want clean water. That’s my global – I want clean, clean crystal water. And I want clean air. And we can do that.
But we don’t have to destroy our businesses…
And by the way, China isn’t abiding by anything. They’re buying all of our coal. We can’t use coal anymore essentially. They’re buying our coal and they’re using it.
Now, when you talk about the planet, it’s so big out there. We’re here. They’re there. It’s like they’re our next door neighbor. Right? In terms of the universe.
Miss Universe, by the way, made a great deal when I sold it. Oh, did I get rich. That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said “He talks about illegal immigration. We’re not going to put him on television.” First of all, Univision is being sued like crazy. You wouldn’t believe it. And NBC I made a great deal with them. Just like an amazing deal. Far more than it would have ever gotten. I made an unbelievable deal. Far more than I ever would have gotten if I said “I think I’m going to sell it if times were normal.” Isn’t it amazing the way this stuff could work out? But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe.
But think of it. So, China is spewing up all this stuff and we’re holding back. And with China, you know, we sign these agreements where we have to do it now. They have to do it within 30 or 35 years. I don’t think they’re going to be doing it.
It’s like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and start World War III. Okay? If we get attacked, Japan doesn’t have to help us. Somehow that doesn’t sound so fair. Right? Does that sound good?
So, South Korea. I ordered televisions. I ordered thousands of televisions a year. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff. I like nice brands. They’re all made in South Korea. Most – other than Sony. And Sony in all fairness has lost its way.
But a lot of them – Samsung – all of them. I mean, they’re all pretty much – all of them, right? I think just about. But I ordered thousands of televisions. They’re all from South Korea.
So we have 28,000 people on the border separating South Korea from this maniac in North Korea. We get nothing. What do we get? Nothing? They’re making a fortune. It’s an economic behemoth.
A lot that you don’t know. We protect Germany. Germany. Mercedes Benz. How many people have a Mercedes Benz? We protect Germany. It’s an economic behemoth.
We protect Saudi Arabia. They were during the good oil days – now it’s probably half, which is fine. But during the good oil days, they were making $1 billion a day. And we protect them. Our military protects them. They pay us peanuts, not like nothing.
And then if we want to buy, if we want to move to another location, “Well, that’s very expensive if we do that.” Charges us rent?
I mean, look, we are run by people that are so bad. They’re so out of their league. And I see it. I see it on this stage. A lot of them are nice people. You know, a lot of people think I don’t like these guys. I do like them.
…They don’t have business sense and business ability. They don’t have common sense. They’re politicians. They’re all talk. They’re no action.
When I say – folks, when I say we’re going to build a wall, most of them say “You can’t build a wall”. We’ll build a wall.
In China, 2000 years ago, they built the Great Wall of China, which is bigger than any wall we’re thinking about. Okay? The Great Wall of China goes 18,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we really only need 1,000 miles because you have a lot of natural barriers that are extremely tough to get across.
We have 1,000 miles. So China has 18,000 or 13,000 miles. And we have 1,000 miles.
We have modern cranes. We have Caterpillar tractors. I want to use Caterpillar. I don’t want to use Komatsu. Made in America!
Even my hats are made in America. It wasn’t easy to find a guy to do those hats. You know what I’m talking about. I see so many knock-offs of my hat. Right? Make America Great Again. I see these things. They’re out of plastic. They’re out of all sorts of crap. Mine are made in America and honestly they do a great job but they don’t produce as much as I’d like because frankly there’s a big – I mean, it’s amazing. Those hats are amazing. But I wanted to have it made – and you know why I wanted to have it made – I wanted it anyway.
But I also knew that as soon as the hats came out and other things – as soon as the hats came out, I knew the press would be calling. And it’s true. First hour when the hats were announced, I get a call from the New York Times. “Mr. Trump, where were those hats made?” I said, “America.” I knew it. I knew it.
Because as you know if I would have said China, I would have been in big, big trouble.
But they’re being knocked off all over the world. I mean, I see hats – they’re like helmets. I see them all. But what are you going to do?
But here’s the story. We’ve got to build a wall.
So when I talk and when I’m up on the stage with these guys, these people, wonderful people and a very nice woman, Carly, she’s a nice woman. When I’m up on the stage with them, they think I’m crazy when I say Mexico. I would say, “We’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be a great wall. It’s going to be a real wall.” See this ceiling? This ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall I’m talking about. I’m talking about if they ever get up there, they’re not coming down because it’s too dangerous. All right?
Do you ever see what they do now? We have these little walls. They build ramps. They built a ramp. I said, “Wouldn’t it be cheaper just to knock the wall down?” And then they drive over it with Jeeps loaded up with drugs. Did you see this? They build ramps. It was a picture in Time Magazine. It’s a ramp. A little ramp that goes over the wall. So they have a Jeep over down, boom, make money. We get the drugs.
…You’ve got to build a wall. We get the drugs. They get the cash. Not so good. Right? We don’t like that deal. Our politicians don’t know. They don’t know.
So when I say Mexico is going to pay for it. These guys on the stage. They’re not business people. They don’t understand. Mexico makes a fortune off the United States.
Number one, we give them a lot of money. But in addition to that, they’re taking our businesses. They’re making – you talk about a trade deficit. I’ll tell you what, Mexico in a certain way is a mini version the new China. Mexico is making an absolute fortune. Peanuts compared to the cost of the wall. Let’s say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. That’s a good. I think I can do a great job for $10 billion. I think we’ll have a lot of money left over.
…And by the way, 20 years ago they wanted to build a wall. People that are opposed to it now they wanted it to stop and they wanted to build the wall. You know one of the reasons they didn’t build the wall? Because of the environmental protection agency. They couldn’t get an environmental impact study approved. Can you believe it? Because there was a toad, a turtle or a snake or something was in the way.
Now, think of it, in China, in the South China Sea, there were these low level land masses that were covered by water but pretty close to the top. China sends in massive excavators…They’re building military fortresses in the South China Sea.
And a friend of mine who’s one of the biggest and richest people in China – he’s a great guy. They’re great people. They’re fine. They’re just too smart. I mean, their leaders are too smart for our people. They won’t be too smart when I put my people there.
When they call up, “We’d like to speak to the donor that is negotiating.” No, no, the donor now is Carl Icahn. You can just speak to Carl Icahn. You know, Carl. Great businessman. You have so many people. They call all these businesspeople call.
So a friend of mine – so I call and I say, “You’re actually doing that.” And then jokingly, I asked, “How long did it take to get started? Did you have to get an environmental impact study approved in order to excavate?” He looked at me and he goes “I hope you’re kidding when you say that.” They conceived of the idea. They started digging four hours later. Okay? There’s no – go through 25 years of environmental impact. You’re going to hurt the snail. You’re going to hurt this. You’re going to –
They’re doing a big thing. They excavated massive, massive, take a look. Massive – the biggest excavator. They’re ripping the hell out of that ocean. They’re ripping it and they’re taking that dirt and they’re putting it and they’re building air fields and they’re building forts.
We couldn’t do it because just like I said for the wall. Legitimately, they couldn’t get an environmental impact statement. Now, that’s probably not the only reason it didn’t happen. I heard their costs were too high.
With me, that’s easy. You know, I’m doing the Old Post Office in Washington. I’m under-budget. I’m ahead of schedule.
Hey, look at the campaign. Guys at $59 million and he’s down at the bottom. I’m nothing and I’m at the top. It’s the same thing.
I actually said – it’s funny. The other day, I got this great review. They said “Trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem.” I’m reading. I want to see. “The problem is he speaks through the applause.” In other words, I say that, you applaud, I start talking before you finish your applause. And you know why? Because I’m so excited because we have so much potential. It’s true. I don’t want to wait for your freaking applause. We have – I have so many. We have so much potential. There’s so many things to do. I don’t really sort of want to wait. I want to do it.
And I just noticed. You did it again. You were getting ready to get a big applause because you like that and I’m speaking. I killed the applause. He’s right. Except I’m not a speaker; what I am is a doer. I get things done. I get things done.
So, when the people up on the stage with me and Hillary – Hillary doesn’t have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy? She has lower energy than Jeb Bush, which is hard to believe. She does!
And I’ll tell you and I’ve been saying it and maybe it’s rude. Maybe it’s rude. Maybe it’s not. But it doesn’t matter. We have a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.
So if I’m rude or if people think I’m rude and if people think I’m rude, I’m actually a nice person. I have a big heart. I want to help people.
I want to help the migration. I want to do a safe zone in Syria. I don’t want them coming here. We don’t know who these people are. They’re undocumented. They’re undocumented. And we should do a safe zone over there.
We should have the Gulf states – Saudi Arabia – these states, they’re not spending. They’ve got to spend. They’ve got to pay.
You know, we’re protecting them. They won’t be there for two minutes if we’re not protecting them. They’ve got to start paying. They’re not taking anybody. Okay?
How about Germany taking millions – can you believe what she’s doing to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasn’t. Everybody said Trump was supposed – what are you going to do? I think she’s made a terrible mistake. We’ll find out. Time will tell. They’re having tremendous crime problems. I think she’s made a terrible mistake.
But what I like is in Syria with other people’s money meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others because look Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. They’ll give us the money. We’d do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which I’ll probably be able to get it straightened out. I understand that stuff. But once it’s straightened out, they can go back home to their country. You know, to their area.
It’s interesting. I have thousands of people who work for me. Thousands. And they’re people that come from far – they’re all here legally. Don’t worry about it. I use e-verify. But I have people – oh, they go and check. These guys go check. They went into the Old Post Office, checking everybody. “Are you here illegally? Are you here illegally?”
They said they found one person out of hundreds of hundreds and hundreds. I don’t believe it. Okay? I don’t believe it.
But you know, it’s possible. We do have 11 million people in the country and it’s probably a much higher number than that. Okay? It’s probably a much higher number.
But we have to do something about it and we’re going to do.
So I just want to finish by saying, look, we have the situation that’s out of control. Our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We’re laughed at by the rest of the world.
And when I started this journey and it’s a journey and I do love you people and you’re amazing people.
And by the way, you’re so smart. You know, a lot of times they’ll say, “Mr. Trump’s people are blue collar.” I love blue collar. I’m honored by that. But they’re not blue collar. I mean, we have blue collar. We have executives. And we have young people.
They said the audience is older. It’s not older. The audience is young.
The other night in Iowa, I told that and I said we have so many young people and the place erupted. They’re all young people. We have an amazing thing happening. It’s just – look, that’s their way of marginalizing not even me. It’s their way of marginalizing you. It’s disgusting.
But when I started this journey and it’s what it is. It’s a journey and it’s a movement that’s taking place. It’s a movement.
Remember the old days? Silent majority? It’s not right. It’s a noisy majority. People are angry. It’s a noisy majority. These aren’t silent people anymore. I got to people you can’t even hear.
This is an amazing thing that’s happened.
I received a call from one of the biggest reporters who happens to be liberal but that’s okay. We can have a couple of them. Right? But a guy who’s really respected. Recently. And he said, “How does it feel?” I said “How does what feel?” He said, “What you have done has never been done in the history of politics in the United States.”
I mean, even CNN said number one political story of the year was Trump. You know what number two was? ISIS. ISIS was two. I’d rather reverse it. Let ISIS be one, let me be two because I want to knock the hell out of them and make me number one next year. Make me number one next year.
But this reporter, who’s a great intellect actually and a very smart guy and very good guy. He said, “What you’ve done has never been done before in the history of this country.”
Newt Gingrich was on a television show the other day and said this is one of the great phenomenons I’ve seen in politics. Nobody has ever seen it because crowds like this – forget it…It’s unbelievable what’s happening. It’s beautiful what’s happening. It’s beautiful what’s happening.
But Newt Gingrich said he’s never seen anything like this. But he said to me, the reporter, said never been done before. I said, “Well, you know, it’s fine. But if I don’t win, it’s just a waste of time.” He goes, “No, no, no. What you’ve done is incredible.” He said, “Even if you don’t win, what you’ve done is incredible. You’ve totally changed the landscape of politics.”
No, don’t applaud. Don’t applaud. Don’t applaud. He said, “You’ve totally changed the landscape of politics. It’s forever going to be different. Your campaign – there’s never anything like it.”
I said, “You don’t understand. You don’t understand. If I don’t win, I will consider this – and I mean this – a total and complete waste of time. I really do.”
So because we’re not going to do anything. It’s wonderful…If we don’t win, to me, and honestly you should feel the same thing, if we don’t win it’s a total waste of time because you have somebody else in there, they won’t be able to do what I do. They’re not going to be able to – and even if you get one of these Republicans in…
Like the wall. When I say Mexico is going to pay, they all laughed. They all go “Hehehe.” They think it’s funny. Honestly. These are people. They think it’s funny. They’re laughing. You know, lightly like “Oh ho, that’s so funny. Hahaha.”
They need to pay for the walls, folks. They’re making billions and billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with Mexico. The wall is peanuts. They’ve got to pay for the wall.
…And then the other day…it was Ted Cruz, who’s a nice guy, but he said “We’re going to build a wall at the southern border.” I said, “Whoa.” And my wife is sitting. “Where did that come from?” Right? No. Ted’s a good guy. But he said…I think it was on Fox. He was being interviewed and he said, “We’re going to build a wall at the southern border.” He didn’t say Mexico is going to pay. He hasn’t gotten that far yet but believe me that’s going to happen.
See, they’re all trying to catch up with me because when I did this stuff it was very out there. Now I’m the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to.
But what happens is – so Ted’s up and he’s talking and…”We’re going to build a wall.” My wife is sitting there and she says “Darling, did you hear that? He just said they’re going to build a wall. That’s the first time – you know, that’s what you say!” She hasn’t heard that from any other candidate.
Okay, so we’re going to build a wall. Mexico is going to pay for it.
There is so many things that we’re going to do. But when I started the journey, it was amazing. I came down. It took courage. I went down into the lobby of Trump Tower on the escalator with Melania. I have never seen – it looked like the Academy Awards. The press. We have a lot of press here today. All live. Look at all those live cameras.
So, when I came down in the escalator, we came down and I said we’re going to do things and I mentioned illegal immigration. You wouldn’t even be talking about illegal – it wasn’t even on the radar. Nobody was talking about illegal immigration. Is that right? Now it’s one of the big subjects.
And that’s why and one of the beautiful polls that came out and I’m so proud of it. CNN just came out with a poll a couple of weeks ago, 37% for Trump, second is 16%, third is 14%, then 12%. So they’re way down. But on the economy, 55%. That’s with 16 people at the time.
On the budget, I mean, I understand the budget, the economy, I win it hands down. All right. But listen to this. On illegal immigration, I’m almost at 50%. And on ISIS likewise almost at 50%.
So, people want to be protected. They want to feel safe. They need strength. They need toughness. They need smarts.
I don’t want to be tough. You know, I know a lot of tough guys but they’re not smart and they’re the easiest. You can be tough. You’ve got to be smart. Let’s start smart first. You’ve got to be smart, tough. You’ve got to be tough. Because the world is trying to take advantage of us.
So what happens is this. I came out, I started. I did it – I was, oh, that first couple of weeks with illegal immigration and Mexico and all of the stuff.
Then Kate was killed in San Francisco and Jamiel was killed in Los Angeles. Jamiel Shaw – an unbelievable young man – was killed, just shot right through the head by an illegal immigrant. Kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back. So many great people. These are two. So many. And then you have the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people aren’t paying taxes and all of this stuff. Right?
And all of a sudden, people are coming over and I’d say the wall and now they’re starting to say the wall. We have to be progressive in our thinking.
When I say progressive, I mean like smart. I’m not talking progressive like Bernie Sanders would say. This guy wants to tax you. Think of it. Think of it. This guy wants to raise your taxes to 90%. No, no. You have to move out of this.
I love this area by the way. I’ve been here many times. Great golfing area. Right? We love it. No more golf if Bernie Sanders – no more golf. No, no. You won’t have any golf anymore. You won’t have any money left to be golfing. You’ll be paying it in taxes. This guy is a total disaster.
…You know, Hillary said, “You know, I’d like to run against Trump.”
Believe me, this poor Chuck Todd, Meet the Press. His show is dying. And he keeps saying do it but I never liked that. You know, he never treated me fairly. So I do his show. He gets his highest rating he has in years. He went from like – believe me, I won’t even give you the numbers. They were massive. The numbers. Right?
I saved his life. And then he goes, “Hillary Clinton said that she would most like to run against Donald Trump.” Trust me. The last person – she’s already gotten a dose of it last night. Do you agree?
She had a tough night. She had a tough night looking at the beauty pageants. Okay?
So Hillary Clinton said and here’s Chuck Todd and he’s a nice guy. I’m not trying to knock him. Please don’t be insulted, Chuck…But he doesn’t treat me right.
So he goes, “The Clinton campaign said they most like to run against Trump.” Like I’m some kind of a sap.
So I called him. I say, “Chuck, let me explain something. When they say they want to run against me, that means they don’t want to run against me. Do you understand that?”
…It’s reverse psychology. They say they want to run against me. First of all, I’m winning and tied in the polls now and I haven’t even hit her yet. But look at what happened to all the guys I hit. They’re gone-zo. They’re gone. Or they’re failing badly. Okay? Or they’ll be gone soon.
But Hillary Clinton. Think of it. I said “So, Chuck, report it like properly. Trust me. They don’t want to run against Trump.” The last thing she wants in her whole life. This was only – I did this like in 15 minutes what happened to them. Because the husband wants to come and she wants to accuse me of things. And the husband’s one of the great abusers of the world. Give me a break. Give me a great. Give me a break.
So the last person she wants to run against is me.

Now, here’s the story…So I announced and I was talking about trade. I was talking about the wall. I was talking about the borders. I was talking about Obamacare.
I was talking about – the Second Amendment will be saved by the way. The Second Amendment. It will be saved. The Second Amendment is going to be with us if I’m president. You know, they’re doing everything. They want to get rid of the bullets now. They’re doing everything they can.
Think of Paris. Think of Los Angeles. Think if you had some guns in Paris on the good side. They had no guns. Paris is the toughest gun laws in the world, folks, and France, I mean, you get caught with a gun it’s – the only one who has guns is the bad guys. So they go into these various places. They call the guy the mastermind. He’s a moron. I mean, this guy was a moron. I call him the guy with the dirty hat. They got him so good. And by the way, the French police did a great job and our Los Angeles Police did a phenomenal job. They did a great job.
Wouldn’t it be wonderful if let’s see, this guy right here in front of me, he’s a tough guy with a lousy head of hair but he’s a strong-looking guy. Right here. This guy right there. See? And that one. Wouldn’t it be nice if they had a gun on their waist? Someone. Him. Him. Him. So that when they started – you know what they were doing in Paris? “Get over here” – boom. “Get over here” – boom. “Your turn. Get over here” – boom. 130 people with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right now in hospitals. Other people are going to die.
Same thing over there. These are people that gave a party in honor of their marriage. There’s something going on, folks. It’s wrong. They gave them a party. They worked there. They gave them a party. She came on a fiancee permit or some nonsense, and she was radicalized. And he was probably radicalized by her or he was already radicalized. And people knew that they were radicalized. And people in the area knew that they had bombs – who the hell doesn’t know your next door neighbor and they didn’t want to talk about it. You’ve got to report these people. We’ve got a real problem. You’ve got to report them.
No more nonsense. They didn’t report them. And the reason they didn’t is because they don’t disagree with them so much. Okay? Believe me. It’s not because they’re afraid. You saw the one that wasn’t politically correct to report them. They didn’t want to report them. I mean, give me a break. So we have to change.
So it started off with me where I was going to talk about trade. I was talk about all of the things. I was going to talk about the military and building it up. I was going to do all of this.
But after Paris and California and there’ll be others because they have no fear of us.
But after Paris and California, I’ve totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points. It’s amazing. It went up 10 points. I said, “What you think it was the debates?” Because I did good in the debates. They said “No, people view you as a tough cookie that’s not going to take this crap.” That’s what it is.
And now I talk about protection. I talk about – trust me. The trade. Oh, that’s so easy for me. I’ve got the greatest guys in the world. They’re going to come and they’re going to do a great job. I’m going to do some myself.
I always talk about Ford. They’re going to build a plant – $2.5 billion in Mexico. Not going to happen with me. That stuff. Those deals are no good.
Ford’s leaving. They’re closing plants all over Michigan to build a plant in Mexico. How the hell does that help us? Okay? Who are the people that think this is a good thing for us?
And in the meantime in Michigan and other places, we have plants closing all over the place. And they’re spending – think about it $2.5 billion. Then they’re going to sell cars, trucks, and parts into the United States. No tax, no nothing? I’ll say you’re going to have to pay a tax folks and you know what? Ford will say if I have to pay a tax, we’re going to stay in the United States. I mean, it’s very simple. It’s very simple.
How about two weeks ago, Nabisco announced the big – they announced they’re going to leave Chicago with one of their big plants. They’re going to move it to Mexico. What’s my statement? We’re not eating Oreos anymore. No more. But I don’t want this. Not going to happen.
They’re going to make product and they’re going to sell it into the United States? Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen.
And by the way, I’m a free trader. I believe. But we’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to get something. We don’t get anything out of anything. We don’t get anything. We lose on everything.
That Iran deal was a disaster. By the way, think of the Iran deal for one second. I always said and this came to me two weeks ago. I don’t know why I didn’t think of it sooner. Very disappointed with myself.
The Iran deal is the worst deal I’ve ever seen negotiated. Okay? I’m wrong. You know what the worse deal is? Iran is a part of that one too. We gave them Iraq. That’s even better. Think of it. We gave Iran Iraq. Iran has the biggest – think of it. They’re going to have the richest. If you go to Iraq, take a look. Among the largest oil reserves in the world. We gave them by decapitating Iraq and then leaving. Because frankly once we did it, we should have kept 20,000 troops. We give Iraq.
So not only did they make a great deal in terms of the Iran deal that we know having to do with nuclear, we also gave them Iraq. We gave them Iraq that they’ve been after for 100 years. We handed it to them.
So now, they have the largest oil reserves in the world. That’s even better than the original deal.
I mean, whoever is representing Iran is doing a hell of a job. Okay? If that was a stock, you’ve got to buy some.
So, we are not going to have deals like that with me. It’s not going to happen. We’re going to become rich again. We’re going to become safe again. And we’re going to become strong again.
And you’re going to remember this. It’s going to be an important moment for all of us.
The one thing we’re going to say and I have to ask you to do – go out and vote. It’s going to be your turn.
…Remember, it starts on Feb. 1st with Iowa. We’re going to New Hampshire. Then we go to the finals. Three weeks.
We’ve got four weeks to go and then we have three weeks after we start.
No matter what’s going on in your life, you got to go and vote because if you don’t it’s not going to happen. But don’t sit back and say “Oh, Trump’s going to do well.” The more we can win by, you know, the more power we have in a sense because it’s like a mandate. But you’ve got to go out and vote.
And I will tell you this. It’s been an honor to be here. I love this area. I love the people here. It’s been an honor.
But we will make America great again. I promise. Thank you.

Wow, what a crowd. Thank you very much everybody. Such an honor. With the snow coming down and it’s a little cold outside and you have hundreds of people still outside trying to get in. But you know, we won’t wait. We’ll go ahead. Right?
We’ll go ahead.
First of all, congratulations to the Iowa State basketball team. You had a – what was that all about? I turned on the game. I said, “Wow, this shouldn’t be that good of a game.” And at the end of the game, I said, “Who won?” Yes? That was great and it’s a great achievement.
I also want to pay my respects to Ben Carson. They had a really bad accident. Some of his staffers were hurt really bad. So I just want to pay my respects to Ben. He’s a good guy – a really good guy – and his staffers and hopefully they get better. Say a prayer for them. Okay?
We’ve had an amazing time today. We’ve been all over Iowa and we’re going to be here tomorrow. We’re going to be here so much you’re going to get so sick of me. You’re going to say, “Please, tell him to get out of here. Tell him to leave. Tell him to go.”
But we’ve had an incredible time.
And you know it started really – we’ve had really a pretty good week. The debate last week – everybody watched the debate. And who knew about these debates? I didn’t know anything about the debates. And it’s been fun and it’s been interesting. And I’ve been treated semi-fairly by the moderators. Not 100%. Some have been very fair actually, and some have been not so fair.
And you know, a lot of the press hasn’t been very fair.
Boy, look at the press back there. They must think there’s a big event going happen today. Wow, that’s a lot of them – it’s like the Academy Awards.
But we’ve had an amazing – it’s been an amazing experience and it started really on June 16th when we came down the escalator. We came down that escalator and it was – I said, “Let’s go” to my wife, who’s been so supportive and so wonderful. I said, “Let’s go. We’re going to make America great again. That’s what we’re going to do.”
And you know, it’s hard to do this because when you think of it I’ve never done it before. I’ve never been a politician. Thank goodness but I’ve never been a politician. I’ve always done jobs and put a lot of people to work. Tens of thousands of people over the years.
And you know, I have thousands of Hispanics that love me. The Nevada poll just came out where I’m leading with Hispanics, which I knew, I knew.
And we came out at that particular opening when I opened and said I’m going to run for president I gave up a lot. You know, gave up a lot of different things including telling our friends at NBC no more Apprentice. That’s hard to do. You have a top show and you say, “I’m not doing it anymore. I’m sorry.” They wanted to do it so badly.
And Steve Burke, who’s a fantastic executive, came up to my office and said “Come on, Donald. Come on. Do it. You’re not going to run. Do it. Do it.” I said, “Steve, I’m going to run.” I was pretty sure. You know, that was about two months before. I was pretty sure. It really is a tough thing to do.
You know, all my life I’ve heard “If you’re a very successful person, you’ll never run for president. You’ll never really run for politics. But you’ll never ever run for president.”
And I built a great company and it’s a tremendous number. You saw the filings. The press was going to look so closely. It was like D-Day when we put those papers in.
You know, first thing I did I announced. They said, “Oh, he’s actually going to do it” because most of them said “He’ll never do it.”
Then when I signed…that’s when you sign your life away. And I signed that. They said, “Whoa! He signed that. Well, he’ll never file his financials because maybe he’s not as rich as everybody thinks.”

And I filed the financials and they saw an unbelievable – you didn’t hear a thing about it. Oh boy, were they looking. I mean, were they looking. And almost 100 pages. The biggest report ever filed with the FEC in terms of that. And it showed a company that’s a phenomenal company with some of the great assets, very little debt, tremendous cash flow. You know, the way it’s supposed to be. And it’s great.
And the reason I tell you that is because that is the kind of thinking we need now in the United States. We need that kind of thinking. We need that – whatever it is. We need a mentality that’s going to – you know, we’re at $19 trillion in debt. It’s going to be up to $21 trillion. You saw that horrible budget. Horrible, horrible budget that was approved two weeks ago and that’s going to lift it.
And so we went along and a lot of things have happened and then the polls came out which I love and new ones came out today and I’ll tell you right now. You know, now that we’re at it. And they came out some brand new ones – some beauties. And one’s coming out – I guess a big one’s coming out. I don’t know exactly what it is but it’s got to be pretty good because I see the response.
I mean, even this with all the people still trying to come into this building. Somebody said it’s a barn. This is a very nice barn actually. But with all of the people still trying to come in, you see what it is.
And we do have something special in a couple of minutes. To me, it’s really special because it’s a person that I think is a spectacular person. So it’s very special to me.
But then the polls came out and some of them – as an example – national polls 38% for Trump, 20% for second. I wouldn’t even names. Right? I won’t even mention names. I’m going to be non-confrontational today for a change.
21% for the second. 11%. And then they’re all down. Some of them are actually at 0% and 1%. I don’t know.
Jeb – well, you know, Jeb’s got one problem. He loves Common Core, meaning he wants your kids educated from Washington, which is immediately no good.
And his second problem is he’s very weak on illegal immigration. Remember, he said they come as an act of love. I said, “What? They come as an act of love?”
So I think those are two very bad points frankly.

…So South Carolina just came out and that’s 32% for Trump, 18% for second, 11% for third. Great.
Florida leading by a lot – 31%, 19%, 13%, and then all down in the dumps.
Georgia just came out. I have 33%.
Yeah, don’t forget that’s 33%. Hard to believe. That’s with 14 people, 15 people. I don’t know when they took it but it was recent. 33%.
Connecticut – now, Tom Brady loves me and that’s sort of like, you know, and I love Tom Brady by the way. 35% to 18% to 9% to 2%. You know, to nothing.
Maryland just came out. Maryland – great place – 32% to 15% to 11% to 9% and then you know they sort of phase out.
You ever hear of a place called Iowa? Oh, I love this. We’re doing actually great. First of all, I have to tell you. You know, they never report it. Even CNN doesn’t report it. CNN does a poll, probably spent millions, they never report their poll.
The CNN poll was 33% for Trump, 20% for Chris. Nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about it. They don’t talk about it. They talk about – CNN is reporting other people’s polls. So, I call up. I say, “Wait a minute. You’re CNN. You spent a fortune on polls and you don’t report your own polls because I’m winning by a lot.” And they have no excuse but they keep reporting other polls. But we’re doing well. I think we’re doing a lot better than anyone knows.
Gravis just came out – 34% for Trump, 28% for Cruz. PPP 28% for Trump, 26% for Cruz. In other words, it’s a little close here. Quinnipiac poll – very respected 31% for Trump, 29% for Cruz. And then again CNN 33% to 20%.
So we’re – I think we’re doing good. I think we’re actually doing better than the polls.
Now, I could do this. I could say, “Well, I just want to do well in Iowa.” I want to win Iowa, folks. Because look, I love the people. The evangelicals have been phenomenal. I’m doing great with the evangelicals but nationwide I’m winning with evangelical – I don’t know if you know that – by a lot nationwide.
With Iowa, I’m doing really well with the evangelicals. We’re doing really well with the Tea Party. We’re doing well – I mean, you hear the numbers. I mean, these are the numbers.
But I actually think we’re doing even better than the polls. And you know, there’s the thing that a lot of people said, you know, they call up, “Are you going to vote for Trump? He’s got very, very tough immigration policies. He wants to destroy Obamacare and replace it with something a lot better.” I’m going to do that. Okay?
But you know, a lot of people, they’ll pick up the phone and they’ll hear different things and they’ll say, “Uh, no I’ll vote for – “ and then they’d get in the booth and they say, “Trump is my man.” There are a lot of people saying that we’re going to do a lot better. But we’ll see because Feb. 1st you have to get to caucus, you have to go out. You’ve got to do it. Otherwise, we’ve all wasted our time.
You know, one of the groups in Maine and it was like incredible. We were in different places up in New England recently and New Hampshire was amazing. And the people are standing there. It was so cold. There was one little group of – despite global warming – you know, you hear about “It was so cold.” It was windchill below zero. And people were standing outside for hours trying to get in.
And then you hear the announcers. “Well, will they show up to vote?” And I don’t know much but I say like if people are going to stand out for four hours in the cold or the heat because believe me they stood out in the heat during the summer and during the fall like you wouldn’t believe in Tennessee, in Texas where we had 21,000 people, no matter where we go we have these big crowds but they’ll stand for hours and hours to get in. Why aren’t they going to go and vote? Or in your case caucus? Why aren’t they going to go and vote? It’s sort of an amazing thing. So we think they’re going to really be – why would somebody wait for hours for four hours and not going to take two minutes to vote?

Now, yours is a little more complicated because the caucus system is a little bit different. It’s a very interesting system. But it is different.
Here’s what I have to say about Iowa. It’s very important.
So you know there’s a movement to move Iowa to the back of the pack. Okay? You know that. You’ll still see me but you won’t see other people. Believe me. I’m loyal. To a fault I’m loyal.
But you’re going to see. I give you my word. I win; they’re not touching Iowa. This is an amazing tradition. No, seriously. This is an amazing tradition. They’re not moving Iowa back.
And they’re not moving New Hampshire either because they’re talking about Iowa, New Hampshire. They’re not touching New Hampshire.
So, we’re going to just keep it the way it is. It really is. It’s an amazing. First of all, you’re amazing people. But all over the country it’s a movement all over the country. The people are incredible. They want to make America great again. They’re going to do something that’s special.
And you know we used to talk silent majority? I say it’s the noisy majority because it’s actually a noisy majority. It’s not a silent majority.
But people are fed up.
So I started on June 16th and we did well. Practically from the beginning we went up. And if you remember, we started at nothing. You know, we started at nothing because nobody believed I was going to [run]. Even when they – my wife said, “You know if you run, you’re going to win.” I said, “What do you mean?” She said, “People don’t believe you’re going to run.” At the polls. I was getting these little polls. I felt like some of these guys now that are senators and governors; they get these little polls.
…Jeb again, right? Boy, he’s taking a lot of abuse. You know? I told him “You know what? You should use the name Bush. What’s wrong? Use the name Bush. I mean, maybe it’s not working but it’s better than Jeb right?” You know, I really do. Get rid of the exclamation point and just put Jeb Bush. It’s your name. Don’t be ashamed of your name.
So anyways, I wish him the best.
But, you know, I started and I started at like 2% or 3% and then it went to 6% and then it went to 9%. And each time the pundits – these real geniuses back here – some of them are sitting back here – these real geniuses like George Will with the little glasses – take away the glasses. He looks like a dumb guy, I’m telling you.
But each time these geniuses would say, “Well, he’s reached his plateau. He’s plateaued” at 6%, right? Then it goes to 11%. “Well, you know, this is surprising but he’s reached his plateau.” And then it goes to 18%. And then it went to 22%, 24%, 28%, then it went to 32%. Then it went actually 42% in the Gravis poll and in Reuters we got to 42% and even a little above that. And then all of a sudden you didn’t hear so much about the plateau.
I want to plateau at 42%. You know, 42% with like 14 people that’s pretty good.
But they kept saying, “He’s plateaued. That’s all he’ll get. He’s got these followers.”
We have the smartest followers there are. Number one, we have the smartest. And the hardest working followers. We have people that love the country more than anybody and they want to take back what’s happened because our country is going to hell.
We can be nice about it. We can say it nice and soft. Our country is going to hell.
When you look at this crazy Iran deal where we’re paying $150 billion and they give us the five back but they don’t know where the fifth is and you understand what that means. That’s not a good sign. But they give us five people but they get seven and they get 14 off the Interpol. These are bad dudes. They get 14 plus seven so they’re getting 21 people. And they have the right to do whatever they want from an enterprise standpoint. Right to do oil. Right to do whatever they want.

But what do they also get out of that deal? First of all, they’re going to get nuclear. They don’t have to develop nuclear missiles. They can buy them. For the kind of money we gave them, they’re going to buy them. Why are they going to develop?
Remember the deal? 24 days. They have 24 days for inspection period. They also have self-inspection. Right? But we paid $150 billion. And I always say, “Wow. What a great – the Persians are great negotiators.” I say what a great deal that is.
…Two weeks ago I started. I said, “Wait a minute. That’s not a good deal compared to the other deal.” They took over Iraq. We gave them Iraq. We knocked the hell out of Iraq. We decimated their armed forces. And you know, for years, they would fight. For many, many years, for decades they’d fight, fight, fight. Nobody would win. Fight. They’d rest. Then they’d go back to fight.
And now, we gave them the second largest oil reserves in the world, which is Iraq. We gave it to them. Now, they’re going into Yemen. And if you look at Yemen, take a look. They’re going to get Syria. They’re going to get Yemen.
Unless, you know, trust me a lot of good things are going to happen if I get in. But let’s just sort of leave it the way it is.
They get Syria. They get Yemen. Now, they didn’t want Yemen. But did you ever see the border between Yemen and Saudi Arabia? They want Saudi Arabia.
So, what are they going to have? They’re going to have Iraq. They’re going to have Iran. They’re going to have Iraq.  They’re going to have Yemen. They’re going to have Syria. They’re going to have everything. They’re going to be a monster. We’ve created this. We have stupid leadership. Really stupid leadership.
So when I started, I said we have to do something about it. It’s not something I wanted to do. It’s something we have to do.
Because I’m representing you. I’m not taking any money. I’m not, you know, like some of these guys where they’re getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know and they’re nice people and some are very bad people but they have no interest in the country. They have interests in their company or they have interests in countries they’re representing.
And these people and these politicians are going to do exactly as they’re told by their lobbyists, their special interests, and their donors.
Me, I’m going to do the right thing.
And I always tell the story. When Ford moves to Mexico, I’m going to talk them out of it. When Nabisco moves its plant from Chicago to Mexico, I’m going to talk them out of it. Believe me. It’s going to be easy. It’s going to be easy.
So, I started and I talked about the border. Very strong on immigration and illegal immigration. Took a lot of heat. But you wouldn’t even be talking about that subject if I didn’t bring it up.
And I talked about again I talked about ISIS and I talked about. But what really happened is after Paris we had 130 people killed.
And by the way, I told you Common Core is dead and Second Amendment is right this way. We’re going to protect the Second Amendment. We’re going to protect the guns. We’re going to protect your guns.
You know, if in Paris and if in Los Angeles, we had the two maniacs that were married. She came on a fiancee permit…You know, wonderful fiancee. She was totally radicalized. Maybe radicalized him. Maybe he was already that way. But we’ve got to start thinking. We have to start using our head. Bad stuff is happening. We have to find out what’s going on.
We have a president who won’t even talk about the term. If you think, he won’t even mention anything to do with what we all know is going on. And you can’t solve the problem if you don’t talk about it. You have to talk about it.
So, very, very strongly we started talking about that. And then after Paris – and by the way, if we had a couple of you and you and you and you, if we had three or four people in that room in Paris as an example where they have the toughest gun laws like in the world. You can’t have a gun unless you’re bad guy, you bought a gun. And they walked in just said “Boom! Boom! Boom! You, move over. Boom!” Killed 130, more to follow because there are people that are so badly wounded.
But if we had a couple of – few of the people that I pointed out – I could plenty in this audience, believe me. But if they had guns on their waist, if they had guns around their ankle where the bullets went the opposite direction, it would have been a whole different story, folks. It’d be a whole different story.

So very, very big on the Second Amendment. But what happened is all of a sudden after Paris and to an extent, to a pretty big extent in California, what happened is these polls started coming in where everybody liked Trump even more. I went up 11 points. I don’t want to do it for that reason.
But it went up because people want strength just like having the family of John Wayne, who was great. I love John Wayne. From Iowa. But out of nowhere I got the most beautiful letter from his daughter, who you just met, who’s an incredible woman, and she said, “We’d like to endorse you.”
John Wayne was a strong guy. We need strength. We need strength in this country because we’re withering away with political correctness nonsense. Okay? Nonsense.
I mean, if you think of it, you can’t say “Merry Christmas” anymore. We’re going to say “Merry Christmas” again. You go into these department stores. They don’t have any Christmas displays. They don’t have the sign “Merry Christmas”. Even people that aren’t Christian are saying “Merry Christmas. We love Christmas. Let us say ‘Merry Christmas’, Happy Holidays.” But people like to see it. And stores don’t put it up anymore. We’re withering away. We’re going in the wrong direction.
So I said we’re going to do this and I had no idea it was going to work this way. I figured I’d be in the pack and maybe like a race horse. You know, just at the end you can sort of inch it out. I had no idea to have 21 point leads nationally. We’re up by so much. And you know, I want to keep it that way. I want to keep it that way.
When you think – and just one thing before I introduce our incredible person, our incredible guest. But one thing – I’ve spent to this point almost nothing and I’m in first place by a lot. I tell this story. I’m not bragging about spending. I’m just saying I’m telling the story. I have spent – they’ll tell you – almost nothing and I’m in first place by some polls have me 21 points. That’s a lot. Okay? You know some people have 2%. I have a lead of 20%. But I’m in first place by a lot.
Jeb has spent now $77 million. Think of it.
And you know the reason I bring him up – I wouldn’t even bring him up – but he spends a fortune on ads against me. You people have all seen it before
I got along with everybody. I contributed to everybody. I was a world class businessman. Now I’m a politician, which I’d hate to tell you. But you go with everybody. You want to love everybody. You want them all to love you unless you’re stupid. But you want everybody to love you.
Everybody knows this story. But so much money has been spent on me. But he spent $79 million. I spend nothing. I’m in first by a lot. He’s down towards the bottom of the pack.
And I said to myself, “It’s amazing. Wouldn’t that be great if this were the country doing this?”
As an example, education. We’re number 28 in the world. We have third world countries that are ahead of us. Education is very important to me.
World, I mean, countries that you wouldn’t believe are ahead of us. You wouldn’t believe if you heard the names of some of these countries. So we’re 28. But we’re number one in spending per pupil by far.
Wouldn’t it be nice if you had like this election process where we spent the least but we had the best education? You know?
So Sweden and Norway and China and others are the best. We’re nowhere near them and yet we spend far more per pupil. So we’re going to change that and I told you we’re going to get it localized but we’re going to change that. Watch, you just watch…
I will tell you this: You can’t educate your children through bureaucrats in Washington. And that’s what happens with Common Core.
When the parents take over and I really mean this because I’ve seen it. When the parents surround those schools and they love those kids and they love those pupils and even when their kids graduate, they are committed to those schools, they’re committed to education. You can do so much better in Iowa than they can possibly do telling you what to do in Washington.
And not all of them but most of them are just interested in “Where’s my check? How much do I get? Let’s make the process complicated.”
And some of the things that your kids are made to study are an outrage. Okay? So we’re going to bring that back locally and it’s going to be great.
So what happened essentially is I started looking and all of a sudden things changed. And people are now looking. They know I’ll do great with China. I’m going to do great with Japan. I’m going to do great with Mexico, who’s killing us in trade and killing us also at the border.
We will build a wall and you know who’s going to pay for the wall – Mexico. They’re going to pay for it because they make a fortune and all of those things.
But now, we’re really focused on security and I’m honored because I will tell you that all of polls and the CNN polls where said in particular that Trump is just not by a little bit but by many, many percentage points winning on ISIS, winning on the military, winning with the vets. We’re going to take care of our vets big league, by the way. Big league. Big league. And we’re going to really take care of our military. It’s going to be big and strong and powerful and nobody’s going to mess with us and it’s the cheapest thing we can do, I’ll tell you that right now.
So it’s been a real focus.
I just want to now say just a couple of words about a very special person. This is a person who I’ve known for a long time, who I’ve respected for so long. An incredible husband. An incredible family. And somebody that when I heard that she was going to endorse me, I was so honored. You have no idea how honored.
And I would like to bring up if I might Gov. Sarah Palin. Special, special person. Thank you.

…Well, I want to thank Sheriff Joe. This is a man, when we talk about borders, this is a man who believes in borders. And getting his endorsement means a lot to me.
And he called and he said he’d like to do it, he’s actually wanted to do that for quite some time. We said let’s hold it for a little because we’re looking at the world and we’re seeing what’s happening. We’re seeing a lot of bad things happening, and he’s the kind of guy that we want on our team.
He’s tough. He’s strong. And he’s smart. And he’s done an amazing job. And he’s got a great, great following of people that absolutely love him and revere him.
And Joe, I would like to really thank you. Come here. Thank you very much…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No deals. No deals. Joe never asked me for a thing. Sarah Palin never asked me for a thing.
We got a tremendous endorsement today, as you know, from Jerry Falwell from Liberty University. Jerry’s a terrific man respected by everybody.
And I will tell you that…no deals. Jerry didn’t say, “Oh, could I do this? Could I do that?” Joe didn’t say it. Sarah didn’t say it. We don’t make deals.
We don’t make deals. Not with Fox. Not with anybody. We don’t make deals.
You have a dealmaker for the country. The country needs somebody that knows what they’re doing because we’re a country that is adrift. We’re a country that doesn’t know what they’re doing at the top.
When you look at the Iran deal, when you look at the Bergdahl deal, when you look at any single thing they are doing, we are adrift. We have no idea what we’re doing as a country and it’s a problem.
…And I said – what did I say? You didn’t read it. Read the full statement of what I said. Read the full statement. No, no, you’re not reading the full statement. Go ahead, get out the full statement. Read it.
No, no, but read the full statement.

Now, the first thing that’s going to happen if he ever got the nomination, which I don’t think will happen, but if he ever got the nomination, the first thing that’s going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue because there’s a very real question as to whether or not he is able to run, as to whether or not he is entitled to run.
As you know, Laurence Tribe said it’s not a settled matter, which is a big problem. But other people have now come back and said this is actually a settled matter; he doesn’t have the right to run.
I think I’m convincing them. I think we’ve – look, every poll says I’m ahead and you know, we’ll see what happens. I have bonded with the people of Iowa. I mean, Iowa today I’ve bonded.
The evangelicals when I get Jerry Falwell who just endorsed me today, who’s a phenomenal man from Liberty University. When Jerry called up, I was so happy to get that endorsement. Then he put it out just a little while ago.
But I’ve really bonded with evangelicals, with the Tea Party and with the people of Iowa. We’ll see what happens.
I’m not a fan of Megyn Kelly. I think she’s a third-rate reporter. I think she frankly is not good at what she does. And I think they can do a lot better than Megyn Kelly…[Inaudible]…The decision with Fox. But I probably won’t bother doing the debate.
I see they’ve picked me as number one, not only number one, number one by far. But probably I won’t be doing the debate.
I’m going to have something else in Iowa. We’ll do something where we raise money for the veterans and the Wounded Warriors. We’re going to do something simultaneously with the debate. But most likely, I’m not going to do the debate.
I didn’t like the fact that they sent out press releases toying, talking about Putin and playing games.
I don’t know what games Roger Ailes was playing…what’s wrong over there. Something’s wrong.
But when they sent out that press release talking about, I said, “Why are these people playing games?” So most likely I won’t be doing the debate.
Now, let’s see how many people watch. We’ll have our own event. We’ll raise some money for the Wounded Warriors. We’ll raise money for the vets.
But when they sent out the wise guy press releases a little while ago – I was all set to do the debate. I came here to do the debate. When they sent out the wise guy press releases a little while ago, done by some PR person along with Roger Ailes, I said “Bye bye.” Okay?

And now you say when does this stop? How many debates do you have to do?
The Democrats are finished with their debates. Is that a correct statement? They’re finished. They don’t have any more debates.
The Republicans go on forever and ever and ever with debates. We have people on the stand that have zero, that have one, that have nothing. So it’s time that somebody plays grown-up.
And then when I see a press release written by a child like I just saw, I said, “What do I have to do? Why do I have to make Fox rich? Let me make the Wounded Warriors rich. Let me make the veterans rich.”
I don’t want to be used.
Hey look, this country needs somebody that’s a dealmaker. This country needs somebody that’s going to make great deals with Russia and China and Japan, where they’re sending us millions of cars and we get – what do we get? Okay? What do we get? We have deficits with these countries.
We need people that know what they’re doing. We don’t need babies.
When they send stuff out like that, they’re not dealing with a baby. They’re not dealing with a baby. So we’ll see.
I said give money to the Wounded Warriors. I said give money to the veterans.
Megyn Kelly is a lightweight. This is a lightweight. This is not a reporter. This to me is just a lightweight. Megyn Kelly shouldn’t be in the debate. I don’t care about Megyn – when Megyn Kelly didn’t ask me a question, she made a statement last time, I thought it was inappropriate. Everybody said I won the debate. Everybody said I won the last debate. They said I won all of the debates.
We’ve had six debates now. Why should the networks continue getting rich on these debates? Give some to the Wounded Warriors. They’re making a fortune.
Let’s see how much money Fox is going to make with the debate without me. Okay? All right? Let’s see.
But I have the toughest plan in terms of border. Nobody close. I’m building the wall. And now other people are saying we want to build a wall. Where were they? You know, where have they been.
We’re talking about a wall. We’re talking about building a strong border. Sheriff Joe understand that probably better than anybody as he’s done a great job and he’s been given very little resource.
And so I think the representation of having Sheriff Joe on my side was really great. Something I appreciated very much.
When I announced I was running for president, I did this on June 16th. Illegal immigration – this would not even be talked about if I didn’t bring it up. Would not even be talked about.
Right now, it’s the biggest subject. And now it carries over to ISIS and all of the things that are happening with the migration and Syria and people coming in that we have no idea who they are. We have no idea who these people are. They could be ISIS. They could be – we don’t know. And it’s got to stop.
We owe $19 trillion as a country. We have people running our country that are incompetent. They don’t know what they’re doing. We have to create a strong border. We need security for our country. We cannot allow that to happen.

We have gangs right now that are made up in Los Angeles and different places that are made up 100% of illegal immigrants who are rough tough dudes. They would be gone so fast.
The local police know all about it. They know who they are. They would be gone so fast.
You know, my whole life I’ve been dealing with politicians. That’s what I do. I deal with politicians. Politicians are fine. But now it’s time to do it a lot better because these politicians have turned out to be all talk, no action. They talk. All they care about is getting re-elected.
We need to get our deficits. We need to bring our country back.
We’re losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade with China. We’re losing tremendous amounts of money in trade with Japan.
…You look at South Korea. I have friends in South Korea. I have deals in South Korea. I have buildings in South Korea. But we have 28,000 soldiers on the line. 28,000. What do we get out of this?
First of all, Mexico is going to pay for the wall and the reason Mexico is going to pay – you know, a lot of people think like some of the politicians – “Well, you can’t get Mexico…” Of course you can. They’re making a fortune off of the United States in terms of trade.
I’m going to bring jobs back from China, from Japan, from Mexico. We’re going to bring jobs back to our country.
Our country is starving for jobs. We’re losing all of our jobs. We’re losing our base. We’re losing our manufacturing. China is devaluing its currency making it impossible for our – it’s making it virtually impossible for our companies to compete.
And now, Japan is doing the same thing. Japan is killing us with their yen. They’re devaluing, and you take a look at what’s happening with Caterpillar versus Komatsu and some of the companies over there. It’s brutal.
Take a look at Caterpillar. They’re getting killed because our politicians don’t know what they’re doing.
And now we have corporate inversions where a lot of people – you just saw the one today – Tyco, et cetera coming out moving Ireland. Pfizer moving to Ireland. They’re leaving the country.
We have major corporations leaving the country because our politicians don’t know what they’re doing.
That’s right. They fly in. They come in. They’re here legally. They stay forever. Can’t happen. We either have a country or we don’t. We’ve got to have a country again.
It’s called make America great. It’s what’s going to happen.

No, but why didn’t you read that before? You didn’t read “I hate the concept of abortion”.
Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Very trustworthy. You sort of knew. Because you know what? You didn’t read the question.
See? When you quoted Tim Russert, you didn’t read what you just said. Read it again. No, read it again.
…Look, I understand him. And I always got along with him fine. But I always waited and I waited for him to do and finally at the last debate he finally started knocking the people of New York and values. I thought it was a disgrace and a lot of people thought it was a disgrace and I’m not just talking about people from New York.
What’s going to happen over the next period of time, nothing’s going to be nice. Nothing’s going to be easy.
But Ted is a wreck. And the reason he’s a wreck is because he doesn’t know if he even – he has checked and he’s a good lawyer. He doesn’t know himself whether or not he has the legal right to run and to serve as president. Now, how can you vote for somebody when you know the Democrats are going to bring a suit?
There’s a cloud on title. It’s called in real estate cloud on title. Here it’s a cloud over his head. Nobody knows whether or not he can even run for office. I tend to doubt it. Some great constitutional lawyers are now saying he doesn’t have the right to serve. He cannot run and serve as president of the United States. That’s a problem.
I also did not like the fact that on his financial disclosure form, it’s a big problem. He’s going to be Robin Hood. He’s going to protect everybody. Not to mention a couple of little facts. The banks. Right? He didn’t put them in. Now, why didn’t he put Goldman Sachs in? Why didn’t he put Citicorp in? He didn’t put them in. He said he forgot.
He also said he didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen 15 months ago. How come he didn’t know? He’s a smart guy. He said, “Oh, I didn’t know I was.” He didn’t know. He didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen. So he was born in Canada, he was a Canadian citizen, and 15 months ago he renounced his citizenship. So he probably has a first. He was the first Canadian citizen ever to be a senator in this country – a senator from Texas. But he didn’t know he was a Canadian. He was a joint U.S.-Canadian citizen. He was a Canadian citizen. He didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen?
And if you check Drudge and if you check Time and if you check Slate and all of the other online polls that judge the debates, almost every single poll – I think every single poll – but almost every single poll said I won every single debate. It’s not bad.

I said – it was CNN. I said I think you should give money to the vets. And I’ve always said that. Wounded Warriors and the vets. I think you should give money to the vets…
You have to have – you know we can all be rebels. I’m a little bit of a rebel. But you have to be able to get along with people. We have to build up our country again.
Our country is absolutely falling apart. $19 trillion in debt. Tremendous deficits. Our – believe me. The real number in jobs is not 5.2%. It’s probably in the 25% category because when somebody gives up looking for a job as you know they’re statistically taken off the rolls.
So we have to build up our country. To do that, you have to get along. At least you’d have to have a semblance of something. People don’t like Ted Cruz. They don’t like him.
And when you say why am I doing better with the evangelicals than Ted Cruz? Because they like me better than Ted Cruz. And they understand I am a Christian. I’m a good Christian. And the evangelicals have figured that out very easily and very quickly…
You know, I’ve had a great life. I’ve employed tens of thousands of people. I’ve given them jobs. That means education. That means health care. I’ve been very proud of it.
I’ve built an unbelievable company, just an unbelievable one. When I filed with the FEC, all of you people ran down because you were trying to say “Well, maybe he’s not as big as people think” and it turned out that it was much bigger. I have some of the great assets of the world. I have very little debt. I have tremendous cash flow. And I say that only because that’s what our country needs. That’s what our country needs. Our country needs that kind of thinking.
We have $19 trillion. $19 trillion. Think of it. Trillion. We have $19 trillion in debt with a horrible budget deal that was just made. Horrible deal. That’s adding another – at least another $2 trillion. We’re going to be at $21 trillion in debt. We’re spending money like a bunch of people that don’t have any clues as to what’s happening.
We have leadership that’s incompetent. We have leadership that in many respects is stupid. When I hear Kerry the other day say that well some of the $19 billion – okay? – some of it…the money that they got back – the $150 billion – some of it is going to be spent for terror, like routinely it’s going to be spent for terror.
And you know, it’s interesting. They ordered supposedly I read today – they’re spending all their money in Europe. Iran is spending all of this money in Europe. They ordered 114 Airbus jets made in Europe. Where’s Boeing? Where’s Boeing? Why aren’t they buying Boeing? Why don’t we have provisions where they have to buy our product?
So when I look at the stupidity of our leadership in this country – and that goes from the border to trade to health care to everything – I say I have no choice. I love my life. I’ve enjoyed my life. I have a great family. I have a great company. But I had to do this. We’re going to make America great again.
Thank you all very much. Thank you.

Unbelievable. I have to start by saying I absolutely love the people of Iowa. Unbelievable. Unbelievable.
So on June 16th when we started this journey, there were 17 candidates. I was told by everybody, “Do not go to Iowa. You could never finish even in the top 10.”
And I said, “But I have friends in Iowa. I know a lot of people in Iowa. I think they’ll really like me. Let’s give it a shot.”
They said, “Don’t do it.” I said, “I have to do it.”
And we finished second, and I want to tell you something: I’m just honored. I’m really honored.
And I want to congratulate Ted, and I want to congratulate all of the incredible candidates, including Mike Huckabee, who’s become a really good friend of mine. So congratulations to everybody. Congratulations.
I want to thank all of the folks that worked with us. We had a great team and we will continue to have a great team.
And we’re just so happy with the way everything worked out.
And most importantly, I have to thank my wife and Lara and Eric and Vanessa and Don. They went out and they were doing speeches. And in fact, Don and Eric, I think you did about six speeches today. So, I just want to thank my family. They have been so amazing and so supportive.
And we’ve had every indication – we’re going now on – we have a poll we’re at 28 points ahead. Okay? New Hampshire – we love New Hampshire. We love South Carolina.
And we’re leaving tonight and tomorrow afternoon we’ll be in New Hampshire and that’ll be something special. It’s going to be a great week and we’re going to be up here next weekend. And I think we’re going to be proclaiming victory, I hope.
I will say this: I don’t know who’s going to win between Bernie and Hillary. I don’t know what’s going to happen with Hillary’s got other problems, maybe bigger than the problems she’s got in terms of nominations.
But we’ve had so many different indications and polls that we beat her and we beat her easily. And we will go on to get the Republican nomination and we will go on to easily beat Hillary or Bernie or whoever the hell they throw up there.
Iowa, we love you. We thank you. You’re special. We will be back many, many times. In fact, I think I might come here and buy a farm. I love it. Okay?
Thank you! Thank you everybody! Thank you very much!

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
[Inaudible]…I never said that. It’s not a statement I would have made. No. I’ve had a great relationship with Iowa.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t really think – look, what happened is we had 17 candidates originally. I was expected to come in like anywhere maybe 10, 11, 12, 13. I ended up coming in second. Didn’t devote tremendous time to it. Didn’t devote tremendous money to it.
In fact, I guess in terms of money per vote, I’m about at the bottom, meaning the most efficient.
I came in second. I came into strong second. Third, I think, was quite a bit away – I think 2,500 or something – close to 3,000 votes away. There’s a big difference between second and third.
I think we did really well. You know, as far as that’s concerned.
I think the press – some of the press said I did fantastically well. Some of the press doesn’t want to give it credit.
I think we did very well. I didn’t expect to do so well. I guess what did happen is one poll came out and said I’m 4 or 5 points ahead and that maybe build up a false expectation for some people.
But it had taken me back to June 16th. I was told “Don’t even go to Iowa. Start right here in New Hampshire. Just don’t waste your – “
…I’m going to Iowa. I went. I bonded with the people, bonded with evangelicals. We did really fantastically and came very close to winning. I mean, we came very close to winning. We came in second place.
So I am very happy with what happened in Iowa. You know, you had 17 people and I was second. Now, I guess you have 11 people and I was second. And I think we did a very good job.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I don’t think I feel any pressure. I mean, we’re going to just do what I have to do. And if it works out, that’s great. And if it doesn’t, that’s okay too because you know I’m here to do one thing – the theme – make America great again. I’m going to do it.
And I think we did very well – I think we did really well in just about everything we’ve done running for office. I think we have a very good result yesterday. It could have been a little bit better. It could have been one notch better.
But it’s interesting all of these governors and senators that you have way down the list, they’re at 1%, 2%, you know, in terms of what happened – what just happened – they’re at 1%, they’re at 2%, they’re 3%. Nobody ever talks about them. And I’m at 24% or 25%, and they say, “Oh, couldn’t you have done better?”
You know, I think the result was quite good especially for the amount of time I spent and for the amount of money I spent.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think I have – I think it fits me better, probably suits me better. I’ve done very well in New Hampshire. I’ve been here a lot more. I have very good relationships with the people of New Hampshire.
But I’ve had very good relationships with pretty much everybody.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I really don’t. I really don’t see that happening. I don’t know what’s going to happen. You don’t – nobody does. We’ll see what – you’ll have many, many people that aren’t doing very well. I am doing very well. But you have many, many people that are here, that are well-known politicians – they’re governors and they’re senators – but they’re not doing very well. And they just came back from a, you know, very major defeat yesterday. And mine wasn’t.
…You know, it’s very interesting. If you look at the numbers from yesterday, I got the highest number in history outside the one number – in the history of the primary.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…Also, I guess they had 185,000 people, which is 45,000 or 50,000 people more than they ever had.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I mean, I think we’ll get a lot of Sanders’s voters. You know, they’re very much into the trade world and I’m the best on trade. He mentions it but I don’t think he’s going to be capable of doing anything about it.
No, I think we’re going to do really well here. I look forward to it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
We have a lot of events scheduled, yes.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we do. We have one commitment long-term for Arkansas actually where we’re going to have about 10,000 people. But we’re going to be back and forth very quickly. We’re going to have a lot of events scheduled, yes.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I just think, you know, I’m just happy with the way we’re doing. You know, we’ve bonded with the people whether it’s there or here. I mean, there’s just a big bonding process going on.
If you look at South Carolina, it’s the same thing. I mean, we’re doing really well there. But we’ve devoted much more time here and South Carolina –
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
It’s not a question of learning. I mean, I just want to continue to do well…Our theme – the theme is so important. It’s just make America great again. That’s what we’re going to do. That’s what we’re going to do. Not really a question of learning.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, if you look at the second place, people didn’t talk about my second place. They didn’t talk about it as positively as they should have. And yet, with Marco who was more than 2,000 votes behind me – that’s a lot of votes by the way – they said, “Oh, he’s surging. He’s surging.”
So, I don’t know why is the third place person doing well and the second place person, who by the way has never run – Scott was mentioning before – “One of the amazing things about you, you’ve never run for office before. It’s incredible how you did.”
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
My brand’s doing great. Yeah.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I think just work. We’re going to work very hard and we have a lot of meetings, a lot of talks, a lot of speeches. We’re going to be meeting with a lot of people and I think we’re going to do very well.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we’ll be doing some of that but we also have some very big events planned like tonight, I think they have 4,000 or 5,000 people and other people were here yesterday and they had 200 people. Same venue, same everything. They had 200 people.
So we have – there’s a good bonding going on.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I enjoyed it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I have unlimited, I have unlimited – you know, it’s funny. When I look at the various people, they said so and so has $20 million. I have unlimited. That’s not the thing.
The only – you know, I’m a businessperson. I want to spend wisely. And I’m probably $40 million under budget because of the fact that frankly I haven’t had to spend very much although I guess we just did a recent filing and I would be probably having spent now maybe $14 million, $15 million.
But I’m self-funding. And I must tell you, I don’t know that enough people appreciate it. I’m self-funding anyway whether they appreciate it or not. So I won’t be influenced by the lobbies and you know et cetera, et cetera.
But I don’t know – I was talking to Scott about this before – I don’t know it’s really appreciated by the voters. I’m the only one on both sides that’s self funding. I’m putting up my own money. And I don’t know that the voters appreciate it. When they go into vote, I don’t think they say “I’m going to vote for Trump because he’s self-funding and he’s not going to be influenced by lobbies and special interests et cetera.”
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m going to tell them and I tell them. But sometimes they like it but I don’t think it’s something they vote for, which is a shame because it’s actually a very big thing. You understand that. It’s a very big thing. It’s a very big element if you could have somebody that can actually self-fund and not be influenced by bad decisions…or looking for themselves or looking for the company or country they represent. That’s a real positive…
I just don’t know whether or not the voters appreciate it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’ve learned that they’re great people. I really, I thought the people in Iowa were fantastic…You know, obviously I was second. I had the largest vote getting in the history of a Republican primary except for one and I brought many of those extra people in. And they also had as you know the largest turnout in the history of Republican primaries in terms of Iowa by far – not even close. I think it was like 50,000 or 60,000 more than they’ve ever had before. So I just – I learned that they are terrific people in Iowa.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Yeah, I look forward to it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…No, I don’t think so. I have a very good relationship with Marco. I like him… I don’t see that necessarily.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
You’re talking about Iowa? Well, that could have been with the debate. I think it could have been the debate. I think some people were disappointed that I didn’t go in the debate.
If I had to do it again, I would have done the exact same thing. And the reason is – you know why? Because I raised $6 million for the vets in one hour.
So if I took a second place instead of a first place and could give the vets $6 million, I’ll do that all day long.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we’re going to be spending money. We’re going to be spending money – we’re going to be spending a lot of money. We’ll be spending money on ads and we’ll be spending money on the ground game.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I can’t help it, honey, whether I’m celebrity. I mean, this is me.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Look, I think most people say I did a great job in Iowa. I came in second. I spent far less than anybody else. And had I known that I was going to be liked as much as I am in Iowa and people did like me – you will understand that – I would have maybe spent a little bit more and I would have been there a little bit more and maybe I would have won it. But, you know, I’m very happy with it. I have 7 delegates right at the top.
You look at other people in all fairness – senators, governors – they’re, you know, they’re way down.
When I have 25% or 26% and they have 1% but you people don’t mention that.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
But the one thing is you people don’t mention that. You don’t mention all the other names.
Now, you mention the person, Marco, good guy. But he came in third. And they make it sound like he had a victory and I didn’t. But I came in second.
…I started off on 17th. I was 17th. When I first started, I had nothing. And then I inched my way up – went pretty rapidly actually. And now I’m leading everything and I did okay in Iowa. Pretty good in Iowa.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think we’re going to have great success here. I think it’s a much different kind of a process. This isn’t a caucusing process. This is a much different – this is a normal voting process. The Iowa is a much different kind of a thing.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, he [referring to Ted Cruz] insulted me. I mean, he started with the insults, as you know. And he insulted Ben Carson by doing what he did to Ben Carson. That was a disgrace. And he insulted the people of Iowa by doing a voter violation form that nobody’s ever seen before which was disgraceful. No, no, he’s a man of insult.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I’m going. I have thousands of people going. No, but we don’t have that invite. I like Mike Huckabee but no, I don’t think he’s even going to be there.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I did. I did. No, I like him. Well, he’s left the race so I feel pretty good about that. He’s a good man.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, we’re adding some and we’re adding them pretty rapidly.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…People in your world are saying they possibly could. So I don’t really see one or two. I see there could be a number.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’d love to finish first. You know, again it would still not be horrible because you’re competing against a lot of very talented people that have been politicians all their lives. I have been a politician for 6 months.
No, but I’d love to finish first.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Wouldn’t horrible but you know it wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world. I could think of worse things. But I’d like to finish first. I think we will finish first. I’d like to finish first.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…Just so you understand. I am totally self-funding my campaign other than small donations because people send in small donations for $10, $15, $20…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, no, that’s merchandise sales. That’s a lot of merchandise sales.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
It’s a small amount of money compared to what I put in.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
It’s very hard when somebody sends you a check for $17.50 and $9 and $200, very hard to send that back.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I am. And I always make the reference. I always make a reference to that and I do it every time.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, he’s [referring to Scott Brown] somebody that I respect, always liked. And he’s very, very respected throughout the country but he’s very respected here. And everybody wanted his endorsement and I’m very honored that he’s giving it to me and he’s going to give it to me on the stage.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That happens with endorsements. No, that happens with endorsement. It’s pretty common with endorsements.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…A poll came out a few days before that said I was about 5 points so maybe there was a tinge.
And again, it may have been the debate, which would have set records if I did it. So I would have liked that. But the fact is it could have been the debate. Maybe it is. Maybe it isn’t. But I would have done it exactly the same way because I raised, Scott, we raised in one hour, I raised $6 million for the vets. And I would never, ever give that up to go between first and second in Iowa. Wouldn’t be worth it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think her email situation is very serious. I have a feeling she’s being protected by the Democrats because it just looks to me to be more serious than anybody that I’ve seen including Gen. Petraeus.
If you watch and study and read about various lawyers – you know, that’s what they do – they really feel she’s in grave danger and what she’s done is against the law not just against rules. It’s against the law. I just don’t know what’s going to happen because I don’t know whether or not the Democrats are going to protect her.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I never saw a race where they’re flipping coins. I mean, they’re flipping coins. What kind of a race is that? It’s ridiculous. I thought it was terrible. I mean, you call it a tie. But to flip coins, they say “Okay, you’re going to get this district. We’re going to flip a coin.”
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know. I can’t tell you yet. I think he’s [referring to Ted Cruz] certainly was dirty what he did to Ben Carson was terrible. He did the voter violation form. I thought that was terrible. Actually, I thought it was terrible. And when they said that Ben Carson was out of the race and come vote for him, I thought that was terrible.
Okay?
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

Oh wow, wow, wow, wow! So beautiful. So beautiful.
We are going to make America great again.
So I want to thank everybody. But I really have to begin by paying homage to parents…[inaudible] They’re up there. They’re looking down. They’re saying “This is something very special.” They loved this country and they’re very, very happy right now. So thank you to my parents.
I want to thank my sister, Judge Barry – Maryanne. Really great sister. Another great sister, Elizabeth. My fantastic brother, Robert, who’s watching right now with Ann-Marie [sp].
And I want to thank my brother, my late brother, Fred – what a fantastic – I learned so much from Fred. Taught me more than just about anybody – just about probably about even with my father – a fantastic guy. So I want to thank Fred. He’s up there. He’s looking down also.
And we can go right down the line but we have to start with Melania. What she puts up with. Oh. She said right from the beginning, “You know if you run, you know you’re going to win.” And she said that from day one. So, Melania, thank you. Thank you.
And Don and Vanessa, thank you so much.
And Ivanka – she was out – she made seven stops today at the polling areas. So, very, very special. And Jared, Jared is a very, very successful real estate entrepreneur in Manhattan but he likes this better than real estate, I think. So Jared, thank you.
And Laura and Eric, they were all out today and it was amazing.
…You know, we learned a lot about ground games in one week, I have to tell you that. And the entire staff…the entire group, the entire staff. Incredible job…
So again, we have to thank the candidates because they really ran – we had some very talented people and to be victorious against some of these people even if it’s for one week. But believe me, it’s going to be for many weeks. Okay?
But they really are. They’re terrific. A number of them called and I just wanted to thank them. But I wanted to congratulate the other candidates. Okay?
Now that I got that over with. You know, it’s always tough. And then tomorrow – boom, boom, boom! But that’s the way it is. And really you have some real talent. We have some real talent in the Republican Party. And the RNC and Reince, we want to thank everybody. Thank you very much.
…Well, I’ll tell you what, I’ll tell you what, what do we really want to thank. Right? We want to thank the people of New Hampshire. Right? Do we love the people of New Hampshire?

You know, I said it and I said it even a year ago. I said, “I think I’m going to do really well there.” Because I’m here a lot and it’s so beautiful and I love it so much and I love the people. And I said, “I actually think they like me a lot.” And then all of a sudden, we started getting numbers in and everyone said, “How come they like Trump so much?” But I have so many friends up here and they are special, special people.
So New Hampshire, I want to thank you. We love you. We’re going to be back a lot. We’re not going to forget you. You started it. Remember, you started it.
You know, when I came out, I heard the end of Bernie’s speech and I heard some of the beginning…First of all, congratulations to Bernie. In all fairness, we have to congratulate him. We may not like it.
But I heard parts of Bernie’s speech. He wants to give away our country, folks. He wants to give away. We’re not going to let it happen. We’re not going to let it happen.
I don’t know where it’s going with Bernie. But we are going to make America great again but we’re going to do it the old fashioned way. We’re going to beat China, Japan. We’re going to beat Mexico with trade. We’re going to beat all of these countries that are taking so much of our money away from us on a daily basis. It’s not going to happen any more.
We have the greatest business people right now in the world. They call me all the time. They want to be involved. We have political hacks negotiating our deals for billions and billions of dollars. Not going to happen any more. We’re going to use the finest business people in the world. We are going to do something so good and so fast and so strong and the world is going to respect us again. Believe me.
We’re going to – do we love our country? Do we love our country?
I think one of the things that really caught on that’s very important – self-funding my campaign. Everybody on both sides – and you know I was saying two weeks ago, I said, “I don’t think people really appreciate it.”
Because I see all of this money being poured into commercials and it’s not their money; it special interests money. And this is on both sides. This is on the Republican side, the Democratic side. Money just pouring into commercials. These are special interests. These are lobbyists. These are people that don’t necessarily love our country. They don’t have the best interest of our country at heart. We’re not going to let it happen. We can’t – we have to do something about it.
When you see the kind of deals made in our country, a lot of those deals are made because the politicians aren’t so stupid; they’re making them for their benefit. We have to stop it. We have to stop it. We are now going to make it for your benefit. We’re going to make the deals for the American people. That’s the way it is.
…So look, in a nutshell, we’re going to make great trade deals.
We’re going to rebuild our military. It’s going to be so big, so strong, so powerful. Nobody is going to mess with us. Believe me. Nobody. Nobody.
We are going to take care of our vets…We’re going to take care of our vets. Our vets are treated horribly. They’re our greatest people. Our vets are going to be taken care of and you remember that. Everybody. Right?
We’re going to have strong, incredible borders and people are going to come into our country but they’re going to come into our country legally. They’re going to come in legally.

We’re going to build a wall. It’s going to be built. It’s not even – believe it or not, it’s not even a difficult thing to do.
And by the way, for the people of New Hampshire where you have a tremendous problem with heroin and drugs, you won’t even believe it. You see this place and you say it’s so beautiful. You have a tremendous problem. The first thing always that they always mentioned to me, “Mr. Trump, please do something. The drugs, the heroin, it’s pouring in and it’s so cheap because there’s so much of it and the kids are getting stuck and other people are getting stuck.” We’re going to end it. We’re going to end it. We’re going to end it at the southern border. It’s going to be over.
And we’re going to work really hard to get those people that are so addicted off the habit. We’re going to work like hell to take care of the situation. It’s a huge problem in New Hampshire. It’s a huge problem all over our country.
We’re going to have borders again and we’re going to work with you people to help you solve that very big problem and we’ll get it done.
…What a group of people! And you know, on top of this group, we have thousands of people outside that can’t even get in. That’s what we have – thousands of people.
Health care – we’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. It is a total disaster. We’re repealing and replacing Obamacare. It’s gone.
We are going to preserve our very sacred Second Amendment. There’s not going to be any more chipping away at our Second Amendment.
If we had protection in California recently and so many other places – you could even look to Paris. Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. These animals go in. They start shooting – one, two, three – 130 people with many people horribly wounded, horribly wounded right now in the hospital. If there were bullets going in the other direction, believe me, it would have been a whole different story folks. But nobody had protection.
I am going to be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. Remember that.
Don’t believe those phony numbers when you hear 4.9% and 5% unemployment. The number’s probably 28%, 29%, as high as 35%. In fact, I even heard recently 42%.
Do you think we’d have gathering like this if we had – if we had 5% unemployment, do you think we’d have these gatherings? Forgetting about security, forgetting about ISIS, which by the way, we’re going to knock the hell out of ISIS, we’re going to knock the hell out of them, and it’s going to be done the right way.
So we’re going to take care of the economy, we’re going to take care of jobs, we’re going to take care of all of the things I said – our border – everything. Health care. It’s going to be so great.
Remember this about Obamacare. People are forgetting but now they’re miserable because it’s going up 45%, 35%, 55%. It’s totally out of control. Probably sinks of its own volition in 2017 unless the Republicans give it another – I mean, what’s going on? What’s going on?
The budget – the last budget that was approved is an absolute disaster for everybody in this country. We owe $19 trillion as of today. We just crossed the $19 trillion mark. We’re going to very shortly be at $21 trillion because of the budget.
We are going to make our country so strong. We are going to start winning again.
We don’t win any more as a country. We don’t win on trade. We don’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS. We don’t win with anything.
We are going to start winning again and we’re going to win so much you are going to be so happy. We are going to make America so great again. Maybe greater than ever before.
I love you all. Thank you, New Hampshire! Thank you! Thank you, New Hampshire! Thank you! We are going now to South Carolina. We’re going to win in South Carolina. I love you all. Thank you very much!

…So it’s so important. You getting out to vote. It’s just so important because our country has been taken away from us. It’s going so fast.
And you know, you’re talking about Second Amendment because I was asking with Randy and a lot of people, I was talking to some of the people before, “What would you like me to focus on?” and they said, “Just Second Amendment. Second Amendment.”
Now, the Second Amendment means a lot of other things too…The Second Amendment in under siege. You know that. You know that very well.
We lost a great Supreme Court justice and nobody thought this was going to be part of the equation. And all of a sudden if somebody gets in that’s the wrong person, they’ll take away that Second Amendment so fast your head will spin.
You see Bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the Second Amendment. Hillary is a disaster on the Second Amendment. No, they want to take it away.
So, it’s just not going to happen. It’s not going to happen.
…But we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great Second Amendment person.
I just heard coming up, you know, the Senators. We’ve been very disappointed. I’m a Republican. Many of you are Republicans. But we’re not being protected whether it’s a budget. You saw the budget that was approved a month ago. It was approved by the Republicans. They gave it away. They gave Obama everything.
So Obama wants to put in a Supreme Court judge. He said he wants – he’s going to be a very negative person to guns because that’s the way it is, okay? Believe me, that will be the way it is. And basically they don’t have the right to do that.
But I keep saying, “Well, are the Republicans going to fail or are they going to crack? What’s going to happen?” And coming up today, I hear, “Well, there could be a way of Obama pushing it through.” Here we go, right? Here we go.
Same thing you heard with Obamacare. It’s going to be defeated. It’s going to be repealed. We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Believe me.
But – I mean, look what’s going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. Your deductible is so high. I mean, you’ve got to see that truck right there? You’ve got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.
So, I come up and I’m hearing that Obama now who said by the way yesterday, “Donald Trump will not be the president. He will not be.” No, it’s a compliment. Look, he’s been perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States. So it’s a compliment.
But he was all over the place yesterday. Said, “Donald Trump will not be – “ I think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right here in South Carolina.

You know, New Hampshire was so amazing. We had a big, big victory in New Hampshire. Amazing people.
And then we come down here and I said, “You know, I think we have an ever bigger lead over here.”
And the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. Even this. I know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same kind of thing for your frontrunner and he’s a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did well but you had 400 people, 200 people. You have thousands of people here and we just appreciate it, and I won’t forget it. Believe me, I’m not going to forget it. I’m not going to forget it.
So I hear that they’re talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge that does not like the Second Amendment and a judge that – and this is one of many. This is one of many but a judge that doesn’t want to do a number on the guns and that doesn’t know how important it is.
We’re just not going to let it happen. Okay? It’s not going happen. And if we elected, we know that. But we have 9 months, 10 months to go. We have to have the Republicans hold fast because I’m just hearing these little cracks, saying “Well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get along, maybe.” It’s not the way it’s supposed to be.
Now, it’s possible that they’ll have their wish because if they win, they’re going to be having their choice. But if they don’t win, we’re going to start really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe Supreme Court judges. This was not supposed to be one in question. This was a very sad circumstance that happened with – I mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. But now we’re going to see what happens.
I will only tell you this. We are doing well. We have a really good chance to win. If we can win in South Carolina, we’re going to go – I mean, we could very well run the table.
I don’t know if you saw – I guess a lot of you have seen actually next week in Nevada. It’s going to be phenomenal. The relationship there to the people…Bush is 1% in Nevada. This guy – why doesn’t he just give up, just go home? Go home. Go home to mom. Got to go home to mommy. You know, Bush is only at 1% in Nevada. A couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. I’m at like 40% something – 48%. So I think we’re going to do well.
Then I think we have the SEC. We’re going to have the SEC, which is going to be I think amazing.
But really now we’re starting. New Hampshire could not have been better. They gave us a tremendous send-off. They really started us on our way.
And we did well in Iowa. I mean, some votes were stolen from Ben Carson, which by the way was a disgrace. What Cruz – what this guy Cruz did with Ben Carson was an absolute disgrace. What he did was – he stole. It’s theft. And then they come out with a voter violation form, which is a fraud as far as I’m concerned. And what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. So we’re not going to let that stuff happen anymore. I mean, we’re not going to let it. We will not let it happen. We’re all watching. You’re all watching. Keep your eyes wide open.
These politicians – here’s a guy, he raises the Bible and yet he tells fibs, he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to Carson and he does other things. Very bad.
So politicians are bad people. Boy, they are bad. Would you believe it?
So we’re not going to let it happen and we’re going to get in there…So Saturday. Go out and vote. This is going to be the place that’s really going to make it.
And honestly, I’ve been watching all the pundits. Now, the bad news is they’re always wrong. They all said I’m not running and I ran. Well, how is he going to do? He’s just doing this for fun. I’m not doing this for fun. Believe me, I love this location but I know I can be someplace else. Okay? I could be someplace else right now. I could be very happy.
But I’m doing it because you know the expression and I see all the hats in the audience – Make America great again. We are going to make America so … [inaudible]…
We are going to win again. You know, we don’t win very  much. You’re very smart, tough people. You like to win. Right? This guy over here. You like to win. And we don’t win anymore. We used to win. We don’t win anymore. Well, we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to start winning again.
So, Second Amendment protected. Common Core. We’re going to end Common Core. We’re bringing your education locally. It’s going to be fabulous. I don’t know if you know or if you’ve heard me say we have the absolute worst – we spend number one in the world on education. Right? Number one per pupil in the world. There is no second place because we’re so high, so much – you have China, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have Sweden. You have these countries are the best in terms of education and they’re on the list the best. And the 30th in the top 30 – we’re number 30th. Okay? We’re number one in costs.

That’s a little bit like what I’m doing. I’m the least spent money. You know, I’m funding my own campaign. Right? So, I don’t have a lot of the people coming to me. You know, the drug companies and all of the – because if you would see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in the United States, a lot of it isn’t really waste, fraud, and corruption. It’s the fact that people that are running against me and people in the Senate, people in Congress, they have tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign contributions and they’re special interests and they do what those people want. And that’s one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is out of whack. The military orders equipment they don’t even want and the stuff they do want they don’t get because the company that makes that equipment is like, you know, it’s not politically adept, and companies that really are, they make the equipments we don’t want. It’s going to all change because I’m not getting any money from all of these people. I don’t give a damn. I mean, we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to absolutely do the right thing.
I’ll tell you a little story. So the drug companies. We are the largest purchasers of drugs in the world, the United States…which makes a lot of sense I guess. But we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better, not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border, which we’re going to end. Okay? We’re going to build a wall. Yup. Folks, by the way, we’re going to build a wall and who’s going to pay for the wall?
You better believe it. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion. And these characters come up, these politicians that I’m running against, “You don’t really think Mexico is going to pay for the wall?” I said, “Absolutely, 100%.” They said, “How are you going to get Mexico to pay?” And I don’t want to get into it because they won’t understand it. I mean, they have no concept of business. They have no – you know, the $150 billion we gave to Iran, these people have no concept.
We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. Okay? The wall is going to cost $12 billion. Maybe less. If I build it, it’ll be taller, better, and less. Okay?
So you think of this. So you think of this. So they said, “How are you going to possibly do it?”
They make so much money. Plus we give them subsidy. They make so much money from the United States it’s going to be one of the easiest things.
And I don’t know if you’ve heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of Mexico held a news conference. He said, “We will never ever, ever pay for the wall.” And the press called me. They said, “They said they will never pay for the wall.” I said, “Who was it?” Calderon. He’s very nice, good guy. I said, “Tell him the following. The wall just got 10 feet higher.” I mean it. It got 10 feet higher. Yeah, they’re going to pay for it.
And I get along great with Mexico. The problem is – I mean, they buy apartments. I have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are Hispanics who I’m doing great with. We have such an amazing relationship with Hispanics and they’re great people.
The problem is the leaders of Mexico are too smart for our leaders. They’re too smart. They’re too cunning.
You look at what’s going on. It’s unbelievable. The border is a disaster. It’s a sieve. People flow over. It’s not going to happen anymore, folks. People can come into our country but they’re going to come in legally. They’re going to come in through a process. They’re going to come in, they’re going to come in legally.
So with trade, we’re going to solve the trade problem. I don’t know if you saw Carrier air conditioner announced two days ago they’re moving to Mexico. Nabisco. They’re moving their big plant from Chicago to Mexico. Ford, they’re moving this massive complex – they’re building a $2.5 billion plant and now they’ve just announced they’re building it bigger.
I’ve been talking about this for two years. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal, they announced they’re building it bigger. In another words, they’re doubling down. You know why? Nobody does anything about it. I’m going to do something about it.
So I watched – somebody asked, “What would you do about Carrier?” Because that was a sad case. Somebody used their cell phone and they were telling them, “You’re out of work. You’re out of job. Forget it. It’s over. We’re moving to Mexico.” Are crying. Grown men that have been there for a long time. Really incredible people. And they’re crying and they’re devastated and they lost their job and they’ve never had another job and now this plant – this whole thing is moving to Mexico.

And they said, “What would you do?” I said I’ll tell you what I’m going to do because you know they talk about free trade. I’m a free trader. But I say oh if I put a tax on these characters – these idiots. I mean, they’re like stupid. They say “Donald Trump is not a true conservative because he taxes.” It’s got to be fair stuff, folks. It’s got to be fair. I’m a conservative person.
Hey, I’m the most conservative on the border. I’m the most conservative with the military. Nobody’s tougher than me. I’m the most conservative. We are going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobody’s ever going to mess with us, folks. We won’t have to use it.
I’m the most conservative on taking care of the vets. Our vets are treated horribly. We’re going to take care of our – I’m the most conservative on Common Core. We’re ending Common Core – I told you that – and we’re moving it locally. And nobody is more conservative and we call toughness but nobody is more conservative on the Second Amendment. So all of these things.
But with Carrier…they’re coming across and they’re going to build a plant and probably get some subsidies from Mexico – probably – we’ve probably given them subsidies. They probably have the United States giving subsidies to move out of the country. That’s how stupid it is and that’s how stupid we’re running…They said, “What would you do?” I say it’s very easy. We call them. We say let’s have a meeting. Here’s the story folks. You’re moving to Mexico. Congratulations. But if you don’t stay in the United States you’re going to have a problem. But here’s what you do it. You want to move to Mexico, build your factory, it’s going to be wonderful. Hire your people they’re not from the United States. All those people are now looking for jobs. Those are good jobs. You know we’re hiring a lot of part-timers now…The numbers are totally phony. The 5% – totally phony numbers. So I say here’s what we’re going to do. Very simple. You build your plant in Mexico. Enjoy yourselves. And you’re going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell them to the United States? No, you’re going to pay a 35% tax on every air conditioner. It’s true. It’s the only thing you can do.
And you know what? It’s the only thing you can do. There’s nothing else. Because otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?
And then you have the devaluation with China. The all-time. They’re like grand chess masters or grand – I mean these people are the greatest – the greatest in history. They’re grandmasters of that – devaluation. They devalue their currency.
Japan is doing very well too. They’re killing Caterpillar. You know, they’re ordering Komatsu tractors now because they’ve devalued – look, you take a look at what’s happened to the Yen and it’s very hard. A friend a mine. He’s a big excavator. You all know excavators. I love excavators. This guy’s a very big one. He buys Caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. He just put in a big order for Komatsu. Not that he wanted to. He said, “Donald, they made it impossible for me not to buy. They’ve devalued the yen to such an extent – Japan – that it made it, I mean, I owe it to my family, to my company, to myself. I have no choice.” And he was like depressed. He wanted to buy Caterpillar…
Well China is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what they’re doing is the devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to compete. We can’t allow that stuff to happen.
Look, when we send stuff over to China, it doesn’t get in. If it does get in, you have to pay a big tax. You know, it’s not supposed to be that way. You know, it’s supposed to be free trade. It’s supposed to be they come we go, back and forth. They devalued their currency and on top of it, they make it impossible.
I have a friend who’s a great manufacturer. He said it’s virtually impossible to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. He can’t get his goods into China. When he does get them in, there’s a tax to pay.
I have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he can’t get it into China because the tax is so massive. He’s going to sell it now at a big loss. Okay?

And think about Boeing. Okay? Think about Boeing. Boeing is building a plant over here. Boeing just had a big order from China. But China is making them build a massive airline facility. Right? Massive. Like bigger than anything you’ve seen.
Okay, you feel good about Boeing right now. Tell me in five years. Unless I’m president. You’ll be fine. Don’t worry about it. But tell me in five years you’re going to feel good about Boeing because I’ll tell you what’s happening. They are going to build that plant – they’re building it, it’s going to be finished soon – they’re going to build that plant, they’re going to devalue the hell out of their currency, and all of a sudden you’ll be reading a big front page story all over the place that Boeing is going to leave, right, South Carolina, they’re going to make all their planes in China. Because this is what they do. That’s what they do. And our leaders aren’t smart enough to stop it, okay?
I have Carl Icahn endorse me. Great businessman, very rich guy, very, very successful. If I told Carl, Carl, watch over China trade, we’re going to be in great shape.
We have right now people that have no concept of what they’re doing. They have no concept of what they’re doing. They’re political hacks. That’s what they are. They’re political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating with these people China. And again, China likewise, I get along great with China. Largest bank in the world my tenant. They buy condos for tens of millions of dollars. I have the Bank of America building in California. I own a big chunk of that. I got that through China through a very complex set of transactions but through China.
I mean, I think China is terrific. I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our leaders for not being able to compete with China. I’m not angry.
So we’re going to get things changed around. We’re going to use our best people. We’re going to be so smart, and we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to have strong borders. We’re going to have strong military. We’re going to take care of our vets. We’re going to have such great trade deals. We’re going to win again. We’re going to win again. We’re going to win so much.
And you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of ISIS and we’re going to get rid of them fast.
I was against the war in Iraq from the beginning. I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldn’t have done it. We did it. Then Obama got out the wrong way. We shouldn’t have done Iraq. We did it. It destabilized the Middle East. Exactly. If you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, I said it’s going to totally destabilize the Middle East because you had Iran and Iraq and they were the same militarily. They’d fight, fight, fight. Boom. Then they’d rest. Then they’d fight, fight, fight for years and years and years. We decapitated Iraq and now Iran is taking over. Not only do they get the $150 billion. Maybe the worst transaction I’ve ever seen negotiated. No, no, don’t buy the famous Obama administration.
The worst, one of the dumbest deals I’ve ever seen. I mean, we get nothing. We get nothing.
We should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. Not now. We should have gotten them years ago.
But if you look at what’s going on and now on top of that we gave them Iraq because Iran is now taking over Iraq. It’s just taking them over.
…

So here’s what we did. We spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who we all love all over the place. They’re the best people. Most incredible. They’re tougher than all of us these people. I mean, what they’ve gone through. So the wounded warriors all over the place. You know what we have? We have nothing. We have nothing. We have absolutely nothing. So here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to change things around. We’re going to be smart. And we have – we’ll do what we have to do in terms of ISIS and all. But we have to start rebuilding our country.
We have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. Not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to have a strong military. But we’re going to have to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.
I mean, our country is like a third world country. You go over to Qatar, you go over to some of these places in the Middle East. You go to China. You see the airports. You see the bridges. They have bridges that are so incredible you’ve never seen anything like it. They have railroad trains that go 350 miles an hour and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.
We’ve become like a third world nation because we’re fighting everybody else’s battles. And remember this, we are like the policemen of the world but we don’t get paid anything. We protect Germany. We protect Japan. Do you know that in Japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with Japan, if we get attacked they don’t have to do anything. If they get attacked, we have World War III, we have to protect them. Okay? I mean, who makes these deals?
We protect as an example South Korea, who have a maniac right next to them. Right? But we protect South Korea. So every time we order televisions, they come from South Korea, they make a fortune. We protect South Korea. Let me tell you something. Why aren’t they paying? They pay peanuts for what we do.
Every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, our soldiers get ready. We have 28,000 soldiers at the border.
So we take care of the world. We don’t get it.
Saudi Arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. And we rent space there so we can help them. We rent military bases. We pay rent. And yet without us they wouldn’t last for two weeks. They’d be gone.
So we’re going to change all that stuff folks. I mean, I want to be good. We want to be fair. We want to have heart. And we’re not going to let these Syrian folks in that we don’t know who they are. We don’t know where they come from. They’re not coming into this country. They’re not coming in.
I mean, there are a lot of them. I don’t know if you know it. You have a lot of them moving into South Carolina. I don’t know. Have you heard this? And you ought to tell your governor don’t let them move to South Carolina. You don’t want them in South Carolina.
And I know they’ll say, “Well, we have nothing to do. We’re state government.” Let me tell you something. If a governor from a state didn’t want to have them, I don’t care what it says, you don’t have to have them…
We want to help them with safe zones. We want to get the Gulf States to pay. I don’t want to pay. We owe $19 trillion. We owe enough. We can lead it but let the Gulf States – they have so much money they don’t know what to do with it. Let them build safe zones.
Look at what’s happening in Germany. It’s a mess. Look at Sweden. Look at Brussels. I mean, Brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it was incredible.
So when I call for moratoriums and I call for this, first I get hit with tremendous heat. Right? Then everybody starts to say, “You know, he’s right.”
Same thing – on June 16th, I announced we’ve got to stop illegal immigration. The heat I took was unbelievable. Three, four weeks later they’re all saying, you know, Trump is right. Then Kate killed in San Francisco, beautiful Kate, by an illegal immigrant. You have Jamiel in Los Angeles killed. Incredible guy. Young man. The father’s a friend of mine – a great guy. You had the veteran – 65-year-old woman – a veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in Los Angeles by an illegal immigrant. We’ve got to stop it folks. We’ve got to stop it. We’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to be a country again. We’ve got to be a country again.
So I just want to thank – this endorsement meant so much to me from these two guys and from the whole community. I just want to say get out and vote. We’re going to do something you’re going to be so happy with. We’re going to win so much and we’re going to make America great again. That’s what we want to do. Make America great again. So Saturday, get out and vote. Thank you! We love you all. Thank you very much! Thank you. Thank you very much folks.

Thanks everybody.
Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are special people.
And you know, we got a boost last week from a place we all remember – New Hampshire – we can’t forget it. Special, special – we love it. And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right? Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you.
And my volunteers – all of these people, volunteers and they travel – and I say “What are you doing?” And now they’re going to Texas and they’re going all over. Some are going to Nevada.
I’ll be going to Nevada. We’re making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta. And then we’re going right to Nevada. And I think we’re going to do terrific there, and the SEC is going to be very, very exciting. We expect to do very, very well.
I want to just say thank you to my family. It’s been not easy for them. They don’t see me anymore. I’m making speeches all the time. And I have a great family. I really have a great family, so I just want to thank all of you.
And Ivanka, you know, we have a hospital ready just in case in South Carolina we’re going to have a baby. There’s nothing wrong with that. It could be any second. It could even be before I’m finished. But you know she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here. So thank you…
We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process. You know Henry [McMaster], right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take him over the governor any time because we won. We won.
He can handle that very nicely. He’s tough. He’s very tough.
Tiffany, Eric, Laura, and Melania.
Melania, say some. Go on.
So, you know, I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits, you know, overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, “Well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out, if you add their scores together, it’s going to equal Trump.”
These geniuses – they’re geniuses – they don’t understand that as people drop out, I’m going to get a lot of those votes also. You don’t just add them together.
So I think we’re going to do very, very well. I think we’re going to do very well.

I also want to congratulate the other candidates, in particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job. They did quite well as I understand…But I just want to congratulate the other candidates.
There’s nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. It’s tough. It’s nasty. It’s mean. It’s vicious. It’s beautiful. When you win, it’s beautiful.
And we’re going to start – we are going to start winning for our country. We are going to start winning because our country doesn’t win anymore. Doesn’t win.
We don’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS. We have great military but we can’t beat ISIS.
We don’t win on trade. You look at what China’s doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border – at the border and with trade.
Mexico is killing us absolutely. We’ll do the wall. Don’t worry, we’re going to do the wall. We’re going to do the wall and by the way, who’s going to pay for the wall? Mexico is going to pay for the wall, and it’s very easy. The other politicians come down, “You can’t get Mexico to pay for the wall.” I said, “100%.” We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 billion to $12 billion. Okay? Believe me, they will pay.
One of the officials – actually one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference and he announced that “We will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump think he is?” They came to me – the press – these people. Look at all those cameras back there. The press came to me and they told me that “He said they would not pay for the wall. Do you have a comment?” I said, “Yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller.” It’s true.
And I love Mexico. I love Mexico. I love China. I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incompetent and don’t know what they’re doing. I love these countries and they’re great.
I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We’re going to Nevada. I lead – I lead with the Hispanics. I’m leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me. I love them.
The problem is that the leaders of these countries, whether it’s Mexico or Japan or Vietnam, which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden, or China in particular – that’s the big one – the greatest abuse of a country that I think I’ve ever seen financially – China – what they’ve done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken everything.
We’re bringing our jobs back, folks. We’re bringing our jobs back. We’re going to bring them back, and I know how to do it.
We’ve had so many – we’ve had so many incredible endorsements. And to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important – Carl Icahn endorsed me. So many others have endorsed me.
And we’re going to put these great business people in charge of trade, and when China wants to come and negotiate, they’re going to negotiate not with a political hack, which is what they have now, they’re going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.
So, we’re going to do a lot of beautiful work. We’re going to terminate Obamacare. It’s going to be terminated. It’s going to be over. It’s going to be repealed, and it’s going to be replaced and you’re going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost. Because Obamacare – if you look – look at the increases in your Obamacare – 25%, 35%, 45%, even 55%. It’s dead. It’s not working. We’re going to go to a plan that’s going to be so much better and so much less expensive.
So, Second Amendment by the way this is a room loves the Second Amendment. Thank you, fellas. This is a room loves and cherishes the Second Amendment. We are going to protect our Second Amendment.
Common Core is gone. We are getting rid of Common Core. We are bringing education to a local level. The people in this community – every time I see them, they want education locally. The parents, the teachers, they want to do it. They don’t want bureaucrats telling them how to educate their children.
We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. Not even close. More per pupil. Second place doesn’t even exist it’s so different. And yet, out of 30 countries, we’re ranked number 30. You have China, you have Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and then you have number 30 – the United States. So we spend the most and we’re at the bottom of the heap. It’s not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.

We are going to build our military, which I thank, because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits watching tonight – we love our military. We love our military.
And by the way, we love our police. Our police are terrific. We love our police. They are not being treated properly.
We’re going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks. And we’re going to buy the equipments that our generals, our soldiers, and everybody that’s in the know want. We’re not buying equipment that sells because they have political people, because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions. We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they’re told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We’re going to have great equipment.
And the reason I can say that is I’m self-funding my campaign. I’m not getting millions of dollars from all of these – I’m not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. That’s not going to happen.
And we’re going to take care of our vets. We love our vets and they’re being treated terribly. We’re taking are of our vets.
So, we’re now off to Nevada and it’s a great state and we have great people. We have great people in our nation no matter where we go. I went to Mobile, Alabama – 35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice – 20,000 people, 20,000 people. No matter where we go, we fill up the arenas.
Over here the other day, we had a 9,000. We had a 10,000. We have people – the only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can’t get them in. We have to send thousands of people away.
Time Magazine – Time Magazine last week did an incredible cover story. They said it’s a movement, and that’s what it is. It’s an incredible movement with incredible people – incredible people.
It’s an incredible movement with incredible people, I tell you. And whether we go – honestly, whether we go to Dallas or whether we go to anywhere you say – you go to LA – you go anywhere you say our people are incredible.
And you know, our theme – what’s our theme? You know it, right? Right? Our theme, which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the word again is eventually going to come off. We’re going to get rid of the whole theme because what’s going to happen – make America great again. Right? And the last two weeks because I’ve gotten to see so many, I guess, millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches and I’ve met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I’ve been saying make America great again and it’s going to be greater than ever before. That’s the kind of potential that we have – greater than ever before.
So, I want to thank everybody. I love you all. Again, South Carolina, we will never forget you. We will never forget you. We will never ever forget South Carolina. We will never forget our great volunteers. We love our volunteers. We’ll never forget all of the people that have helped us so much, my family.
And folks, let’s go – let’s have a big win in Nevada. Let’s have a big win at the SEC. Let’s put this thing away and let’s make America great again.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

We love Nevada! We love Nevada! Thank you! Thank you!
This is a great place. Thank you. Thank you very much…We will be celebrating for a long time tonight!
You know, we weren’t expecting – a couple of months ago, we weren’t expected to win this one. You know that, right? We weren’t.
Of course, if you listened to the pundits, we weren’t expected to win too much and now we’re winning, winning, winning the country.
And soon, the country is going to start winning, winning, winning.
So I want to thank the volunteers. They’ve been unbelievable. These people they worked like endlessly, endlessly. We’re not going to forget it.
Now, we’ve had some great numbers coming out of Texas and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas. And then a couple of weeks later, Florida. We love Florida. So we’re going to do very well in Ohio, where we’re beating the governor. That’s good. That’s always nice to be beating the governor. And Michigan and the whole thing. I mean, it’s going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. All right?
So tonight, we had 45%, 46% and tomorrow you’ll be hearing, “You know, if they could just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%, so if they could just add them up”. They keep forgetting that when people drop out, we’re going to get a lot of votes…
So I want to begin by thanking my boys. Eric has been all over the place making speeches. He’s getting better than me so I’m a little jealous. And Don went up to Elko and you were all over, right? And he loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA – both of them. Both of them. We love the Second Amendment, folks. Nobody loves it more than us. So just remember that.
…I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here. The owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin. Stand up. Great guy. Phil said, “Donald” – like for the last three months; he’s driving me crazy. He said, “Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign.” I said, “Phil, I don’t want your money. I don’t want to do it. I’m self-funding.”
Every time I see him – it’s hard for me to turn down money because that’s not what I’ve done my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know, I get greedy. I want money, money, and now – I’ll tell you what we’re going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now, we’re going to get greedy for the United States. We’re going to grab, grab, and grab. We’re going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We’re going to make America great again, folks. I’m telling you, we’re going to make America great again.

And another great friend of mine – somebody respected by everybody – a great friend of Phil’s too – Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great people. Steve is always calling. He’s always got advice. Right, Steve? “Donald, I think you want to do this and that.” His advice I like to listen to, I’ll be honest with you.
So, Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. You’ve been great friends. Thank you. Thank you.
So, this was very exciting tonight. But I’ll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals.
And I have to tell you, Pastor Jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great.
And as you know, Liberty University – do we love Liberty University? Jerry Falwell, Jr. – an unbelievable guy and he has been with us and with us from the beginning. I want to thank Jerry and his family. It’s been amazing the relationship.
So we won the evangelicals. We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated; I love the poorly educated.
We’re the smartest people. We’re the most loyal people.
And you know what I am really happy about because I’ve been saying it for a long time, 46% of the Hispanics. 46% – number one with Hispanics. I’m really happy about that.
So, I’m very proud of you. This is an amazing night. And I love the country. I love the country.
We’re going in the wrong direction.
We’re going to keep, as you know, get Gitmo, we’re keeping that open and we’re going to load it up with bad dudes – we’re going to load it up with a lot of bad dudes out there.
We’re going to have our borders nice and strong. We’re going to build the wall. You know that. We’re going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect for Mexico and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. Right? Going to happen. Going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They’ll pay for the wall. They’ll be very happy about it. Believe me, I’ll talk to them. They’ll be very, very thrilled. They’re going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.
We’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. We’re going to be the smart people.
You’re going to be proud of your president, and you’re going to be even prouder of your country. Okay?
So tonight, folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump International Hotel. I keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. He’s fighting me all the time but that’s all right.
But I just want to say it’s a great state and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm – it was unbelievable to see. The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember, make America great again. We’re going to do it and it’s going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody!

Thank you. Thank you! Thank you very much everybody. This was an amazing evening. This was a great evening.
They just announced North Carolina.
I don’t know if they’ve even announced Illinois yet but we’re leading by a lot so I think they’re going to announce it.
Florida was so amazing.
And I want to thank our friends. Northern Marianas Islands have been so incredible, and we picked up nine delegates this morning. I heard very early in the morning – nine delegates. That’s a lot.
And I just wanted to thank the governor, Ralph Torres, great guy, Chairman [James] Ada who was a fantastic man and that was a very nice start to the day. That I can tell you.
Many things have been happening over the last short period of time.
CNN was very nice. They came up with a poll. The poll said 49% to 14% and 15%.
We just had one from the Economist just came out – 53%.
And it was sort of interesting because I was watching the news a little while ago and one of the commentators, who I’m not particularly fond of but these are minor details, said “But Donald Trump doesn’t get over 50%” because I’m at 43%, 45%.
Actually now according to the Economist, I’m at 53%.
And I have to explain to these people they don’t understand basic physics, basic mathematics, basic whatever you want to call it. When I don’t get over 50%, we have four people. Right? We have four people. Do you understand that?
So when I get 53% – and this one is an example, I had 53% and that’s with four people. That’s an achievement just mathematically when you can get over 50%.
So someday, someday they’re going to understand, someday when we take it all, they’ll understand. But it is really ridiculous.
I want to thank my family. My boy, Eric and Don. They’ve been working so hard.
Ivanka and Jared have been amazing. Ivanka’s home right now. In about two minutes, I’ll call her. She’s about to have a baby so I don’t know. We’ve been thinking about that now for a little while but Ivanka has been so helpful and Jared has been amazing and it’s been just great.
I want to thank Barron for putting up with the fact that I never see him anymore. And I want to thank Barron. I never see my Barron and it’s his birthday on Sunday so we’re very happy about that.
So it’s a little tough. You know, we’re going away and he goes, “When are you going to be come home, daddy? When are you coming home?” I said, “Well, in about two and a half weeks.” It’s been pretty tough.

You’re traveling all over the place. It’s really amazing. Yesterday I went up to Ohio. I went up to Youngstown.
We had an incredible crowd and just amazing people in this country. We have so, so many great people.
We will someday in the not so distant future if I win – otherwise it’s not going to happen I have to be honest with you. But Apple and all of these great companies will be making their product in the United States, not in China, Vietnam and all of –
And we’re not going to be losing our companies. You know, our companies are leaving our country rapidly, rapidly, whether it’s Carrier air conditioning, whether it’s Ford, whether it’s Eaton.
I was in Cleveland and Eaton Corp. they’re leaving and so many companies are leaving. And frankly, I’m disgusted with it and I’m tired of seeing it and there’s no reason for it. It’s just gross incompetence at the highest level. We should not allow it to happen. Pfizer, great company, pharmaceutical company, they’re going to Ireland.
And there’s so many more. You have corporate inversions. You have people who can’t get their money back into the country because the politicians can’t get along. They can’t make a deal.
Everybody agrees – Democrat and Republican – everybody agrees the money should come back…trillion dollars outside of this country. Everybody agrees that the money should be here and the politicians for three years haven’t been able to make a deal.
And we could make a deal. There’s an example of something that you could do if I sat down with a few of the senators, a few of the congressmen, you could make a deal on that in 10 minutes if you know what you’re doing because everybody wants to do it.
And companies are actually leaving our country to get their money, not only because our taxes are too high, which we’re going to lower by the way. But companies are leaving our country in order to go and get money that’s their money because there’s no way of bringing it in.
So, we’ve got a long way to go. But I think at some point it’s going to get done. This has been very exciting, this whole process.
We started, I was one of 17 people – senators, governors. I’ve had such great support. Dr. Ben Carson the other day endorsed us. Great guy. Great guy. Wonderful man. And Chris Christie endorsed us. That was so incredible.
And today Pam Bondi came up and endorsed us. She was great. She is a truly wonderful woman, of the job she’s done in Florida is incredible.
You know, so many – we’ve had such incredible support. Paul Ryan called me the other day – tremendous call. I spoke with Mitch McConnell today. We had a great conversation.
The fact is we have to bring our party together. We have to bring it together.
We have something happening that actually makes the Republican Party probably the biggest political story anywhere in the world. Everybody’s writing about it all over Europe, all over the world they’re talking about it.
Millions of people are coming in to vote. This was an example of it today. Many, many more people. I’m looking at the polling booths. I’m looking at the different polling booths all around the country where it’s up. And the lines are four, five, six blocks long. And the woman – one woman was there for 40 years. She’s been working the polls. And she said, “We’d have two people here. We’d have three people. Now look at the line.” And the line looked like it was, you know, long. It was really long. Five deep and long. And it’s just a different thing.
We have a great opportunity and the people that are voting are Democrats are coming in, Independents are coming in, and very, very importantly, people that never voted before. It’s an incredible thing.

I want to pay my respects by the way to Todd Palin, Sarah’s husband. Sarah was here. She was incredible. She was making a speech on my behalf and fantastic and everybody loves her. And what happened is he was in a very bad accident. He’s tough as nails. He’s going to be fine. But I just wanted to pay my respects by the way to Todd.
So, our theme when we started and Melania and I came down. Yeah, sit down everybody. Please. I mean, this is Mar-a-Lago. We give you seats. You don’t have to stand. I’m looking at all these people.
Cory, good job, Cory. Good job. And Hope and our whole squad. Right?
So when this began, Melania and I and I said, “Got to do it.” And she was so supportive and she’s been so supportive. It’s been amazing. And we have to do it.
We came down the escalator and it was about trade and it was about borders. And what happened is pretty quickly after that and we were – we shot right up. I shot right to the top of the polls and have been leading in the polls almost from the beginning without fail.
We went up in June. Most people said I’ll never run. He’s just going to have fun. He’s having a good time. This isn’t necessarily – I mean, I’m having a good time. You know, I’m having a very nice time. But you know what? I’m working very hard and there is great anger. Believe me. There is great anger.
One of the broadcasters was saying, “Is there anger?” And I said…I was supposed to say, “No, there’s not. We love the way things are working. We love the deal you made with Iran. It’s wonderful. You give them $150 billion. We get nothing. We love all the deals. The trade deals are wonderful. You lose $500 billion a year with China. We lose $58 billion a year in terms of imbalance. It’s a total imbalance.”
We don’t make good deals anymore. We don’t win anymore. As a country, we don’t win anymore.
And they asked, “Is there anger from your people?” …They’re not angry people but they want to see the country properly run. They want to see borders. They want to see good health care. They want to see things properly taken care of. They want our military rebuilt. Our military is in a very bad state. They want it rebuilt. Very, very importantly, and they want the Second Amendment by the way protected and protected strongly and that’s going to happen.
And you know what they want so badly? They want our veterans taken care of. Our veterans are treated so badly.

So, we started and something happened called Paris. Paris happened and Paris was a disaster. That was – there have been many disasters. But it was Paris.
And then we had a case in Los Angeles where it was in California where the 14 young people were killed. And it just goes on and on and on.
And what happened with me is this whole run took on a whole new meaning, not just borders, not just good trade deals. We’re going to make the best trade deals you’ve ever seen.
We’ve got such endorsements from Carl Icahn and the smartest people in business. And these people are going to be negotiating our deals and they’re the best in the world. We have the best business people in the world. We’re going to have such great deals. We’re going to do so good with trade. We’re going to do so good on the border.
But it took on a whole new meaning, and the meaning was very simple. We need protection in our country and that’s going to happen and all of a sudden the poll numbers shot up. And I’m just very proud to be a part of this.
I think we’re going to go. We’re going to go on a lot of trips over the next month but I think we’re going to have a great victory.
And I think more importantly than anything else we are going to start winning again. This country is going to start winning again. We don’t win anymore.
We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re going to knock the hell out of them.
We don’t win at trade – China, everybody, Japan, Mexico, Vietnam, India, name the country. Anybody we deal, anybody we do business with beats us. We don’t win at trade. We’re going to win at trade. We’re going to make our country rich again. We’re going to make our country great again. And we need the rich in order to make the great, I’m sorry to tell you.
So, I’m going forward. We had a fantastic evening. I would have never thought this could have happened. I guess we’re waiting for one result which possibly will be very successful also.
But to win the states that we’ve won and to win by the margins and especially, look, this is my second home, Florida. To win by that kind of a number is incredible. It’s record-setting.

And I have to say that number one, I want to congratulate Marco Rubio on having run a really tough campaign. He’s tough. He’s smart. And he’s got a great future. He’s got a great future.
But I have to say and nobody has ever, ever in the history of politics received the kind of negative advertising that I have. Record, record, record. By the way, mostly false. I wouldn’t say 100% but about 90%. Mostly false, vicious, horrible.
They said it was $18 million the first week, meaning last week, and $25 million. It added up to over $40 million.
And you explain it to me because I can’t – my numbers went up. I don’t understand it. Nobody understands it. My numbers went up.
I mean, it’s been an interesting experience. Last week, Adam Scott won at the Trump National Doral. Won the big tournament, the world championship of golf. And Adam, who’s a great guy – I guess a lot of you folks saw that – but I’m watching…we have television screens all over. We’re down at this gorgeous green at Doral and everything is working beautifully and then a commercial comes on. The worst commercial and I’m with these wonderful people from Cadillac and all these top executives, and I’m saying, “Look over there! Look! Don’t watch it. Don’t. You don’t want to watch it.” I’m saying, “Isn’t the grass beautiful? Look! Look! Don’t watch.”
And they came in waves one after another after another and it was brutal.
And then Adam comes in. He’s this handsome kid from Australia, one of the greatest golfers in the world, made an unbelievable shot on the 18th hole to win the tournament. He’s a great champion. And we’re giving the award.
And just before we break for a commercial, “We’ll be right back with our great champion from Australia, Adam Scott” and here’s the commercial and I said, “No!” And it was two of them – two of them. Oh, what a day that was. What a disaster. What a disaster. Unbelievable.
So again, I just want to congratulate everybody. This is a really interesting process. It’s an amazing process. It’s very tough. But it is – by the end, if you get to the end, you can handle a lot of things including pressure because there’s nothing like it. Lies, deceit, viciousness, disgusting reporters, horrible people. It’s true. Some are nice. Some are nice. Some really disgusting people back there.
And I just want to say we’re going to go forward and we’re going to win. But more importantly, we’re going to win for the country. We’re going to win, win, win, and we’re not stopping. We’re going to have great victories for our country.
Thank you very much everybody! Thank you!

Thank you. I feel so badly. Outside we have 5,000 people and they can’t get in. I feel badly. I want to apologize. We have speakers outside. But I want to apologize. Who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.
…It’s an honor to be here. It’s an honor to be with you. And very important. You know, we’re doing really well and millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Millions.
You know, I get a kick. I call him Lyin’ Ted. Lyin’ Ted Cruz. He stands up – and I win as you know, you’ve seen it. I have been winning all of the evangelical vote. But he stands up Bible high, puts it down and then he lies. You know, it’s amazing to watch it.
But he said, “Yeah, I’m the only one who can beat Donald Trump. I’ve done it time after time.”
And I said, “Wait a minute. I’ve won like most of the states.”
I think he had like 5 or 6 and I had 20 or 22. Right?
And I said I can’t believe it. And I have millions of votes more.
He says, “I’m the only one that can out-vote him.” And I’m saying but I have like millions of votes more.
I’ll tell you something so important. There is something happening. It’s like a movement. It’s incredible. It’s a movement. And we’re part of the movement.
Not me. I’m a messenger to be honest. I’m a messenger.
And this is something that’s so special and so amazing and it’s on the cover of time magazine. It’s on the cover of every newspaper. It’s something that has maybe never happened and they’re saying it’s phenomenon.
Sometimes they say I’m a phenomenon. I’m not. The message is what we want.
We want jobs. We want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.
And you know, Wisconsin. I wrote down some notes…and it’s like devastating.
So [Scott] Walker came out today. I wrote down notes about Wisconsin.
Look, he certainly can’t endorse me after what I did to him in the race. Right?
But look at this. By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two-year budget deficit. That’s terrible.
By the way, these are out of books. Like this isn’t Trump. This is out of books.
Total state debt is $45 billion. Now, maybe somebody is going to tell me that’s wrong but again these are – $45 billion. Very high. One of the higher ones.
20,000 fewer people in the labor force in Wisconsin than seven years ago even though population has grown by 100,000. So your population is higher.
Now, I wouldn’t have done this but he endorsed Cruz. What am I going to do? Am I going to say he’s doing a great job? He’s not doing a great job.
You know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big Harley. I love Harleys. Right? But the motorcycle guys like Trump. They really like Trump.
And he doesn’t look like a motorcycle guy to me. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
Unemployment rate – well, they say – that can’t be possible. Unemployment – they have down 20%. That can’t be possible. What? Is it 20%? Effective or regular? Effective unemployment rate 20%. Hey, this is out of the big book.
800,000 food stamp recipients.
Middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. These are the stats. Right? You know about this, right?
It goes on and on.
Wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to Mexico since NAFTA.
Now, just so you understand, Kasich is running also. We forget about him. He voted for NAFTA.
Both of them want TPP. TPP – Trans-Pacific Partnership. Both of them want Trans-Pacific. That will make NAFTA look like a baby, and Wisconsin will be hit so hard.

…But the motorcycle guys love Trump.
I love the disabled veterans and the veterans. We’re going to take care of our veterans. You know that, right? We’re going to take care of our veterans.
What is it about Trump that they like?
I’m serious. We went to Hilton Head. We went to different places, and there were hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. Beautiful bikes. Lots of Harleys, right? Lots of Harleys. Made in America. But beautiful, beautiful bikes…
I don’t know what it is but they like me. I feel good with them. I feel safe. I got out took a picture. Secret Service went crazy.
I said, “These are great people. Don’t worry about it.”
But listen, I appreciate it, fellas, I appreciate it.
…We’re going to keep you free. I’m going to keep you free.
Because we’re getting rid of ISIS.
We’re going to have good borders. We’re going to have borders again. We’re going to have borders again.
So here we have something that’s pretty interesting – I love you too.
You lost 70,000 jobs to China. 70,000 jobs.
100,000 illegal immigrants living in Wisconsin. Taxpayers are paying tens of millions of dollars.
Look, I don’t know. I don’t know.
So what happened with Walker and I just will finish off with this – he’s a nice man. He came up to my office like about a year ago before I did – you know, I’ve been a politician for about eight months, right? I never thought I’d be a politician. The last thing on my mind I want to be was a politician.
But I built a great company. I filed papers. The company is incredible. Very little debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.
And I say that not in a bragging way. I say that because that’s the kind of thinking we need, folks.
We can’t have China ripping us off and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam. We can’t have it. We can’t have it. And they are ripping us like they’ve never ripped anybody before.
We’ve rebuilt China. I mean, we’re rebuilding Mexico.
You look the other day you saw Carrier moving down. Carrier Air Conditioning. I buy those air conditioners – a lot of them. I’m not buying any more of them. But Carrier Air Conditioning moving to Mexico. Ford moving to Mexico.
Nabsico – home of the formerly wonderful Oreo which we don’t eat anymore. Right? We don’t eat it. We don’t eat it. Number one, it’s a good – it’s called an enforced diet.
But you know what? Look, we’re losing our jobs. Look at your jobs.
When I see that statistic, I mean you’re losing your jobs.
When I went after your governor when he decided to run and I said, “You know, I’m going to be nice to him. He’s a nice guy.” The guy came up to my office. He handed me a plaque because I supported him. What do I know? I supported him. I gave $50,000 or $100,000. That’s a lot of money for a guy you’ve never met before. Right? That’s pretty good.
But I like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.
You know, to a certain extent, I’d rather see somebody able to make a deal without having to go through all of that mess.
But he was fighting and I gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a year ago or so and he gave me a plaque. Beautiful picture of something. I haven’t – I never really got to read it to be honest. And I put it aside. That was it…
Because if we win Wisconsin, it’s going to be like over, pretty much over. Because we’re going to do great.
…Emerson poll came out. I think I have 67%, 68% in New York compared to like 10% or whatever, and you have Cruz talk about New York values, New Yorkers are no good.
I watched New Yorkers rebuild the World Trade Center. I watched New Yorkers dying.
Believe me, New Yorkers are good. New Yorkers are very good. But Cruz said they’re no good.
So anyways, so I think we’re going to do great in New York.
We’re going to do great in New Jersey. Chris Christie endorsed me. We’ll do great in New Jersey. Good guy.
Ben Carson endorsed me. Sarah Palin endorsed me. Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff Joe.
And you know, with the evangelicals, I’ve had so many ministers. I’ve had so many pastors endorse me. And Jerry Falwell, Jr. endorsed me. It was incredible and we’ve done so well with the evangelicals. I mean, Christians, evangelicals, we’ve done so well.
In fact, in South Carolina, when we went to South Carolina, that was going to be Cruz’s territory. He was going take it, except we won it in a landslide.

You know that. You saw it. He was there. This guy follows me around, I’ll tell you.
But you were there. Remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. And then I started speaking. I started talking to people, and I started saying the good and the bad and the ugly.
And we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. I’ve won just about I think almost every place I’ve won with evangelicals.
And it’s been an amazing time.
So now I’m here to talk to the people of Wisconsin. I have friends in Wisconsin. I’ve been here before. It’s an incredible place but it’s a place that has problems.
But you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesn’t have a problem.
I remember when he was on the campaign trail, I was so nice to him. I said, “How can I hit him? I’m not going to hit him. I’m not going to hit him.”
And I was so nice. I hit Jeb instead, right? Right?
And I hit Rand, Rand, old Rand.
And I hit a lot of people and they all went down.
Wouldn’t it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make things happen that are positive? You know.
But it’s not with the mouth. It’s really with the mouth, the heart, and the brain. Remember the brain.
I have a lot of friends. They’re good with the mouth but they’re not good with the brain. It all doesn’t work. Okay?
You know, we had an interesting thing today. A poll came out – a nationwide poll. A great poll. It was Trump 48%. It was an NBC poll. Trump 48%. Cruz was second in the 20s, mid-20s something. And Kasich was way down.
So what happened is they showed the poll. It was an NBC poll. They call it an NBC monkey poll. And it was on the Today Show, and it was on Morning Joe. Morning Joe held it up and he said, “Wow, those are great numbers.”
48% is pretty good. You have three people. You know. I don’t get enough credit for that.
I’ve been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and I’ve had like seven people. How do you get 45% when you have seven people? Nobody says that. They say, “He hasn’t cracked 50%.” How do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?
So I’m at 48%. Poll was good – way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. And they showed Hillary Clinton – hers is very close.
She’s got a little problem. Could happen. Got a bigger problem with the emails than she has with Bernie to be honest with you. She should have. Her bigger problem should be with emails. We’ll find out how honest our country is, right?
But she’s got a sort of close race. And they put her poll up and it was put up there. You know, big letters.
And then they said, “And Donald Trump is winning.” That was it. They didn’t put numbers up. They didn’t say I’m doing great. In fact, they said, “Donald Trump is winning,” and they put some – a little slightly negative statistic in – it was like wait a minute. They put her numbers up and they didn’t put my numbers up.
Folks, it’s so unfair. The press is so dishonest. It’s unbelievable. That was Chuck Todd. That was Chuck Todd this morning on the Today Show.
They put Hillary’s numbers. And I’m winning by a lot and they said, “Donald Trump is winning. You know, let’s go to a new subject, okay?”
Now, I guarantee you one thing. If I was losing or doing poorly, it’ll still be up. It’ll be up all morning because they don’t like what’s happening. I’m self-funding my campaign. I’m putting up my own money. They don’t like it.
Ted Cruz and Kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy industries. They’re getting money from the pharmaceutical companies. They’re getting money from everybody.
Folks, you can’t straighten out this mess – we’re in a mess – if you can’t do what you have to do.
When millions of dollars are given to Cruz and Kasich and millions from different industries, you’re not going to be able to say, “Well, we’re going to do and go against the banking industry to do what’s right for the people” if the banking industry gave you millions of dollars. Now, that’s true with Hillary also. Now, she’s gotten millions of dollars.
But I’m the only one self-funding my campaign. I’m in for a lot of money. I in a lot of money.
What is beautiful is when I was running against Jeb in New Hampshire. I was in for like $2 million. Jeb was in for like $48 million. I was in first and he was close to last.
I said, “Who do you want as your president?”
By the way, did Jeb endorse anybody yet? Because I haven’t heard. Because I think Jeb probably endorsed – huh? Did he endorse? It just shows you how important it is. Nobody even knows. I don’t even know.
He’ll probably – he’ll endorse – just so you know. Look, when you’re in war, you’ve got to fight and you fight hard.
When I fight, I win. You’re going to win. You know that. You’re going to win.

But you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? Because you want to win and you want to win fast and a lot of people don’t love you after you finish.
But I just love you. I don’t care about that.
In fact, they’re asking Cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they said I won every single debate. Now I heard the other night, “I want to debate Trump”. I’ve debated him 11 or 12 times. Every single online poll has me winning the debates. He’s an okay debater but he’s a bad talker. You know, everything’s so dramatic.
And he waits. Phony. And he waits. You know, you ever see he goes sentence after sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. And then he goes again. It looks like we’re in the theater. We’re not in the theater. We’re in the real world.
So what happens – thank you.
…By the way, the Sheriff is here and he’s a great guy and his people are fantastic. Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you.
I mean, the only thing I feel so guilty about all the people outside. Feel so guilty. We’re going to come back. We’re going to come back, come back to this area. You guys cannot come. Okay? All of the ladies can come but the guys can’t.
But all of the people outside, we’re going to take a bigger place because I feel slightly guilty.
But look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. We have a very serious situation.
We have a country that’s not protected.
We have a country that’s sitting on a big fat bubble that’s going to explode. In a certain way, I’d say let it do now, don’t do it after I get in. Three days it’ll explode and they’ll say it’s Trump’s fault. Okay?
Ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. We have interest rates that are so low that if you’re rich like me I can borrow money for any amount. If you’re a hardworking guy with a great farm or you’re a hardworking developer or businessman you can’t borrow money.
You can only borrow money really cheaply – think of how bad it is – you can borrow money for nothing practically if you’re rich. But if you’re rich, you don’t need the money so you don’t have to borrow it.
But if you’re a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you can’t get it.
The regulators are running the banks. Dodd-Frank is a disaster, by the way. It’s a disaster. It’s a disaster.
But the biggest disasters are regulations. Our rules and regulations are horrible. We’re going to get rid of probably 85% of them. There are some we live with. But we’ve got to go back.
So many people in this area have told me regulations – regulatory climate – is the worst they’ve ever seen.
I have a friend, who’s a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lake for the purposes of environmental. It’s like a puddle and they’d consider it a lake.
So we don’t know what we’re doing. So here’s what’s happening. We’re going to make our country so great again. We’re going to make our country so strong again.
Our military is going to be so amazing. We’re never going to have to use it.
Don’t forget, I didn’t want to go into Iraq. All these guys think that I’m a tough guy so I’m going to be so quick with the trigger. I’m not going to be quick.
I was the slowest with the trigger. I didn’t want the trigger.
Now, when Obama left though, he shouldn’t have left the way he did. He gave a certain date, and the enemy said, “It can’t be possible. Nobody would be that stupid. Nobody.”
So I actually don’t think it’d hurt that much because I don’t think the enemy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give a date – “We’re leaving on this date.” And then he left. They said, “He was serious!” They pulled back. They pulled back. Then you see what happened. They pulled back then they went in with fury.
But how about the 50 soldiers. He sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago, he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly, quietly sending them. What does he do? He sends them in and he makes a big press conference or announcement that “We are sending 50 soldiers in Iraq, Syria” and these soldiers have a big target on their backs.
Why can’t we just keep our mouths shut? Why can’t we be unpredictable? Unpredictable? Right? Why can’t we be unpredictable?
Why does he have to tell – first of all, it doesn’t even sound good when you say “50 soldiers” because it sounds like so small. People would say, “Is that good or bad?” I mean, that sounds small.
But then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?
These are extraordinary people. These are our finest. And they’re, you know, very dangerous missions. Why would you tell people that we’re sending them in? You just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.

They are right now – who knows what’s happened to them? But right now, they have a big target on their back.
People that we’ve let go of at Gitmo have now killed Americans. You’ve seen that. You saw that yesterday. That came out yesterday. We let people go out of Gitmo and they kill Americans. Okay. Is anybody surprised at that though? Would anybody be surprised?
And we’re keeping it open. Now they’re spending, you know, hundreds of millions to run it. I guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. You’d have a lot of money left over.
So we’re going to get efficiency in government. But we’re going to end Obamacare. We’re going to replace it with something so much better and so much less expensive.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring our education local.
We are going to preserve our Second Amendment. It’s under siege. It’s totally under siege.
And Christianity is under siege. I’ll tell you, Christianity is under siege.
You take a look. I’m with the – I’ll tell you what. I’ve been with so many pastors lately and Jerry Falwell Jr. was an example – was telling me that – first of all, he told me something that “You remind me so much of my father.” I thought his father was a great guy. What his father did with Liberty College and Liberty University. And Jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new place.
But when Jerry was so strong and so great.
But I was talking to – I probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, different folks came up to my office, and they’re really under tremendous pressure because they don’t want to have their tax exempt status taken away. This happened during the Lyndon Johnson presidency.
And I said, “Why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?” Christianity. These are the pastors. These are strong people. These are really strong people. “Why do you allow that? Why aren’t you more forceful?”
And finally, somebody said, “Well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exempt status.”
I said when did that happen exactly? It was during the Johnson.
Well, we’re going to try to get rid of that. Okay? Because that’s really terrible.
We’re going to try getting rid of – and I’ve said that to a lot of evangelicals, a lot of great Christians. We’re going to try to get rid of it because it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody of religion, of our religion, of Christianity, somebody that’s an evangelical.
You take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.
They’ve actually taken their right of free speech away.
So I said we’re going to try to get rid of that and I think we’ll be very, very successful.
You know, it’s interesting. I said how many Christians are there? Because you know, we’ve got men, we’ve got women. You cut it in half, we’ve actually have a few more women. But we are far more Christians than we have men or women. So in a way, it’s the most powerful lobbyist – the biggest group of people.
But they’re not allowed to talk because they’re petrified.
You saw what was happening with the IRS and what was taking place with regard to certain groups.
So we are going to try and usually when I say try that means I’m going to get it done. That means I’m going to get it done.
But we are going to try very hard. We are going to get that brought back and I think it’s going to be very hard to counter it.
Because if the Christians, and if the whole evangelical Christian sector gets together, nobody, nobody can beat –
You know, when I made the statement about banning Muslims on a temporary basis, I took such heat.
Now people are saying, “You know, Trump is sort of right about that.” Now they’re all going, “Wow” because they see what’s happening.
And I think if I would have said it about Christians, I think I would have had less opposition. That’s what’s happened in this country. That’s what’s happened in our country.
And we can’t let it happen. We’re going to turn this country around and we’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the dummies anymore.
We’re not going to be where China made last year trade deficits $505 billion. Japan over $100 billion. Mexico $58 billion.
We’re going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. Okay?
…Recently, I was in Florida and Marco, who’s a nice guy actually. You notice how nice they are after you’ve defeated them?
I like everybody I defeat.
But when I ran against Marco, it was supposed to be…well, he started it. Right? Just like Cruz started the last deal. He started it.
But Marco came after me very viciously. You know he wanted to be Don Rickles, right? And it didn’t work.
But what happened is I won by 20 points – almost 20 points – and a lot of these issue we were talking about it was big issues. And frankly, I wish I would have left about two days earlier. I wanted to stay in Florida campaign. I wish I would have devoted two more days to Ohio because I almost won in Ohio. I would have won in Ohio but I didn’t want to take a chance leaving my beautiful Florida because I love Florida and I wanted to win that.

So if I would have left a couple of days early, I think I would have won Florida the same.
But I’m not going to have anything happen in Wisconsin. We have to win.
If we – look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. It’s time.
And believe me, you know, Cruz likes to pretend he’s an outsider and in the meantime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.
So believe me, believe me, they’re all establishment.
And frankly in a way it’s worse because Cruz is establishment and yet he’s got no relationship with the establishment.
He goes and he stands on the floor of the Senate for a day and a half and he filibusters, and these Senators – look, I know. They’re tough cookies. I have the best – I have one of the great people – Sen. Jeff Sessions, who’s great.
Nobody better than Jeff.
And you know, Cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech – “Sen. Jeff Sessions” – and then he comes out and he endorses me.
But when you think of it, look, out of all of these Senators, he has one supporter – Lee – who’s his friend. I mean, he’s his friend. And by the way took him plenty time to do it.
But you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people you can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.
Cruz has not accomplished one thing.
So he’s an insider but it’s almost like the man on the street because he can’t get anything done.
He dislikes people. He calls people like for instance he said horrible things about the Speaker and you know about the Speaker and he said about separately Mitch McConnell.
I mean, he said some terrible things about – how do you get things done when you’re calling Mitch McConnell bad names. Okay? Let’s just say bad names.
So he’s sort of got the worst of all elements. He’s an insider totally but he can get nothing done. Okay? He can get nothing done.
Your new Speaker – how do you like Paul Ryan? How do you like him?
Wow. I was told be nice to Paul Ryan because – really?
Well, he’s the Speaker. He’s a nice guy. He called me the other day. He was very nice.
But I’m very surprised at this statement. Wow. Are you all Republicans? Are you mostly conservatives?
…I always say I’m just a common sense conservative. And so, so important – common sense.
And somebody told me today that somebody else – I think, Walker – used my term.
You know, Walker used – I said, “Make America great again.” I said, “Make America great again”, and I copyrighted the term.
And then Walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he was saying “Make America great again” because he saw the response that I got. The difference is he didn’t get any response. So then no.
But we told him he can’t do that. That was the first real problem I had with him…
Now, I said a common sense conservative and today I heard he used the term because the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said he’s a common sense conservative.
Well, I coined the phrase a few months ago. That’s what I am. I am a conservative.
I’m very, very conservative on the military. I’m very conservative with our vets and on health care and on lots of things.
But – and I’m actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would say “He’s not that conservative on trade because he doesn’t believe in free trade.” Well, actually I do believe in free trade. But it’s got to be good trade for us, right? It’s got to be smart trade.
It can’t be where Wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where you folks can’t get into China but China comes in here like it’s Swiss cheese. That’s what happens.
You know, China does not obey the rules.
Now, I get along great with China. I made a fortune dealing with China. I have two buildings because of China. Big ones in New York and one in San Francisco – Bank of America – that I have in partnership with a great company. And it’s because of China. I sell – I have one of the big leases with one of their big banks – with the biggest bank in the world actually from China.
I sell millions of millions of condos to people from China. I like China.
I’m not angry China. I like them. I think their leaders are doing a great job for them.
But our leaders are doing a bad job for us.
Same with Mexico. I get along great. The Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. But their leaders are killing us on the border and they’re killing us on trade.
And I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at our country and our leadership because it’s grossly incompetent and we’re going to change it around and we’re going to get the best and we’re going to get the finest.

…So whatever you can do to spread the world, I’ll be around. I’m going to Green Bay. I love their team, by the way. You talk about a great franchise. No, I love it.
And you have a truly great quarterback. I don’t know. He’s probably endorsing somebody else but I don’t care. He’s still a great quarterback.
Tom Brady’s a friend of mine. He said you have a great quarterback. That’s all right with me. When Tom says he’s a great quarterback that’s pretty good.
But you know, I really want to win Wisconsin because if we could win Wisconsin, we’re going to put all of this stupidity away.
We’re going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and I’m talking about basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of times people will see deals that are done and I mean take a look at the Iran deal. How bad is that I mean, just as a deal…
But many times people will say deals that the country makes, and they’ll say, “How can our politicians be so stupid?” They’re not stupid. They’re being hit by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. Okay? They get tremendous campaign contributions. They’re not stupid. They’re doing it for themselves.
So again, I’m not doing that. I’m doing for you. I’m working for you.
But just remember, they’re not so stupid like you think.
But when you look at the people funding Cruz’s campaign and Kasich’s campaign, and you look – don’t forget – Cruz said, “Oh the banks, the banks.” You know, he’s going to be Robin Hood. He’s going to be this great guy.
And then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he borrowed about a million dollars from the banks – Citibank and Goldman Sachs. He borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room would be proud to have – a very low interest rate. Almost no interest. He forgot to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. He just forgot. He said, “Oh, I forgot. I forgot.”
Okay? So then he hits the banks. He’s controlled by these people, folks. Okay? I mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. But they’re controlled by these people.
I’m controlled by you. I’m going to do the right thing for you. Okay? So remember that.
Q&A
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
22 veterans a day commit suicide. That’s correct.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
We’re going to take care of our veterans so much. Look, let me tell you, they – many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. They can’t even get to see the doctor. You know that. They end up killing themselves before they see the doctor.
22 a day and a lot of people don’t even believe that number. They think it’s almost like an impossible number – how can it be so bad? – and it actually could be even worse than that.
We are going to take care of them. From their standpoint, they wait, they wait, then they get bad service, then they wait some more – six, seven, eight days.
And sometimes they’ll see the doctor and the doctor says, “I can’t see you now. I’m going on vacation.”
You see the corruptness.
I just left Phoenix – 21,000 people. Sheriff Joe was there. The job he did was incredible. Incredible.
You know they had a little protest. Right? That protest ended so quickly. He arrested three people; everyone else scattered.
You know, and you have that kind of a Sheriff here. You have a tough cookie here. I can tell you. I just met him and I can tell you.
But you know I have a great policy plan and I’ve gotten a lot of credit for it and it’s on DonaldJTrump.com. And with the veterans when they’re waiting for exorbitant time – even for a little time – they’re going to go to the doctor. They’re going to go to local doctors or local hospitals.
Many of the hospitals are dying for business. You know that they’re dying. Some of these hospitals are dying. They’re going to get immediate treatment, immediate service, we’re going to pay the bills, and we’re going to save a fortune, and they’re going to get great service.
And everybody is in love with it. Everybody loves it. And that’s what’s going to happen. So we’re going to take care of our veterans.
If we can’t take care of our veterans, we can’t take care of anyone. So we’re going to take care of our vets.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Boy, do you look good though. You look good and tough. I wouldn’t want to fight you.
Do you think I can take you in a fight? I don’t think so.
How about we do it right now? That would be great for television…
Go ahead.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…Let me tell you this. Our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immigrants who come in our country…You don’t even have to write it down. We’re going to do things about it.
You know what you’re saying? I’ve heard this so many times before with the daycare and everything else. We are going to take care of our vets.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
By the ways, speaking of increase, Cruz and Kasich want to destroy your Social Security, folks, okay?
I want to bring money back into this country. I want to bring jobs into this country. I want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. I want to take our wealth back from China, from Mexico, from all of these countries that have our wealth. They’ve taken them like we’re a bunch of babies.
And we’re going to save your Social Security and we’re going to save your Medicare. They want to get rid of it. Okay? Remember that.
I want to use not too many executive orders folks. You know, because executive orders came about more recently. Nobody ever heard of an executive order.
Then all of a sudden Obama, because he couldn’t get anybody to agree with him and he start signing them like they’re butter.
So I want to do away with executive orders for the most part.
But look, just do me a favor. Stick with me. You’re going to be okay. All right?
…I know, what you’ve said I’ve heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge problem. Huge problem. And your wife not working? Huge problem – she can’t. So anyway, I bet you have a great wife. Good wife? Better believe it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…We’re ending Common Core. You’re not going to be educated – your kids in Wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in Washington, D.C. by bureaucrats – many of whom – I can’t say all – but many of whom don’t care for your kids. They couldn’t care less. They get big, fat salaries. Your kids are going to be educated locally.
We’re terminating Common Core, and you will see something that’s magic. And I’ve seen it where parents and all of these people – the uncles, the aunts – they’re all on the school boards. They get professionals. They have great principals.
You can’t see what’s going on from Washington, D.C. Many of the people never even come here. They sit behind their desk in Washington. They draw big salaries. And they’re telling you how to educate their kids. Not going to happen that way.
And I’ve even seen it where they keep graduates – the child graduates and those parents stay on. They love it because their child went through the system. They love it and they become so good at it. That’s what’s going to happen.
We’re one of the worst in the world in education. We’re going to be one of the better ones. Not necessarily – you know, I don’t know that we’re going to beat Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and China. But we’re going to come very close.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Discipline in schools. I don’t think that Wisconsin should have a big problem with discipline. You have a big problem with discipline?
…Well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. We have to get discipline –
I mean, I have a case. I have a wonderful guy – campaign manager. You talk about discipline. And you probably saw what happened today with my campaign manager. He’s a good guy. Corey [Lewandowski].
And by the way, the easiest thing – “Corey, you’re fired.” I can’t do that. Can’t do it.
So fortunately, I have a taping system. You know, very – I’m rich so I have tapes all over.
So this young woman who complained, was all – she was talking about being maybe thrown to the floor and all this. I said, “Oh, that’s horrible.” And then we saw the tapes.
Did anybody see the tape? What did you think? Right? Nothing.
Women – what did you think? [Audience response inaudible]…
I mean, she wasn’t like – her face stayed the same.
If somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad – don’t forget – initially she said thrown to the floor. But if somebody squeezed your arm or hurt you, wouldn’t you start screaming or something?
Did you see any change in her face? [Audience response inaudible]
…It’s horrible. It’s horrible. Honestly, it’s horrible.
And the best thing I could do is say – but I can’t destroy a man. I’d destroy him. Got a beautiful wife and children and I’m not going to destroy a man for that.
And you know what? When I saw that at the tape, at first I said, “Oh, this is terrible.” Then I saw the tape. It’s my tape. I’m the one that had the tape. It’s on the ceiling of this incredible club in Jupiter, Florida, and we’re all leaving and we have a press conference. Right?
And the press conference lasted a long time. It was like 45 minutes. So that was enough.
I’m leaving with a whole big gang of people. People pushing left and right, left and right.
And all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. She grabs me or hits me on the arm. In fact, I’m like this with my arm up and then he goes by and maybe he touched her a little bit. But I didn’t – it was almost like he was trying to keep her off me. Right?
Like he was helping her. And did you see her fall to the ground?
Okay, because she talked about falling to – now after, I must tell you, her statement changed big league because she said go to the ground. You know, all this. I could read it to you. Does anybody want to hear it?
I mean, I want to be accurate because I’d like the press to treat me.
So before she knew she was on tape, she said “I was jolted backwards.”
Was she jolted backwards? I mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. I mean.
“I was jolted backwards. Someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me down. Campaign managers aren’t supposed to forcefully throw reporters to the ground, except she never went to the ground. She never even came – flinched.
She didn’t – you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even the bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little bit, you’re “Whoa!” Right? I mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. Look at her face. It’s zero.
They’re going to destroy a man’s life?
And then I have Cruz saying, “Oh, that was a terrible thing. That was a terrible thing.”
Let me tell you something, folks. If I win, if I lose, I didn’t need to do this. I’m doing this because I just had a beautiful grandchild with Ivanka. Ivanka and Jared – beautiful, beautiful grandchild. It’s my eighth. I’m doing this all for them.
I didn’t need to do this. This is not so easy. And I had no idea. You know, maybe none of us did. You know, I had no idea the message was going to get across. It’s a message of competence. It really is. It’s a message of common sense and it’s a message of competence.
And I had no idea that we’d have millions of more votes than we had when we had that stiff Mitt Romney – a total stiff – who by the way he’s a dope. He’s not a smart person. I’ll tell you right now.
Let me tell you about Mitt Romney. That was an election he should have won and he lost. And he should just go away and let the big boys do it now because you know what? That’s an election that should have been won.
And I’ll tell you what. I helped John McCain and at that time, honestly, that was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. But he lost.
And I helped Mitt Romney a lot and he lost. And I said, “This time, we’re going to do it ourselves. We’re going to win. We’re going to win.” So just remember that.
We’re going to win because of Wisconsin, I hope…

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Right! She’s so smart. I don’t want them to know. I don’t want to tell Putin what I’m thinking. She’s so smart.
What you just said…what about Ukraine? Don’t worry about Ukraine. Ukraine is going to be fine. Just don’t ask me why.
You know, this world of politics – “Mr. Trump, you said -“ don’t forget I’m the one that said take the oil. I was right. They didn’t take the oil. You know who has the oil right now? ISIS has the oil.
You know, that Libya – ISIS has all that oil from Gaddafi, all of that big oil from Gaddafi. He took it. We’re like a bunch of dummies.
Why aren’t we embargoing? Why aren’t we creating a nice big circle so they can’t get the oil out? Why aren’t we taking that oil back?
Look, look, look, I’m the one that says though I don’t want to say everything.
If I win, I have a good chance of winning. I’m the frontrunner by a lot. I want to go in there. I want to knock the hell out of ISIS. I don’t want to tell all. I really mean this.
I don’t want to tell everybody in this room – and look at all the cameras that are going now – I don’t want to tell the world what I’m going to do because they’re watching.
Just let me do it folks. I will do it. You would be so happy. You don’t have to know the details. Okay? Let me do it.
You know, I used the word before. We have to be a little bit unpredictable. We can’t say, “Well, we’re going and attack on March 14th and then we’re going to hit them from the front and then we’re going to hit them from the back.”
You know, Obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. He said, “We’re going in next week.”
Look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust – there has to be some trust. Right? Do you trust?
We’ve got to stop the stupid. That’s why I really think your question is so great – “I don’t want to hear how you’re going to do it, Mr. Trump. Just do it.” I’ll do it. Okay?
I love that. That woman! That woman! Thank you, honey. Thank you.

Woman from the audience :
…I was Miss Wisconsin USA in 2005.
Donald Trump:
Okay. I can see why.
Woman:
Thank you. You have been – I just want to say thank you. You saved me in so many ways.
In recent years, I’ve been struggling with an incurable illness and I’m on home care now. It’s caused by a doctor’s medical negligence.
And in those dark days fighting – right now all the tubes have been removed and I have a Do Not Resuscitate Order and I have a seven-year-old son – in those days in the hospital, I received from you a handwritten letter that said, “To the bravest woman I know.”
Donald Trump:
I remember that. I remember that. Such a wonderful, beautiful woman. I mean, just an amazing woman.
And are you coming along okay?
Woman:
No, sir. But that’s okay because I’m here right now to thank you in person and that was my biggest dream.
And I wanted to thank you because through you and your organizations, my son who’s Mexican-American, seven-years-old, through your organization and just being able to stand on that stage with you back in 2005 the outpouring of love that can from that ultimately provided my son when he graduates high school with a full ride to college.
Donald Trump:
That’s great. And you know what we’ll do? We’re going to watch him. You’re going to watch him. We’re going to be watching your boy. Okay? But you’re going to be hopefully around. You’re not going to have to have anybody watching. You’re going  to hopefully be around. Those doctors are going to be so wrong. But we’ll be helping you.
Woman:
So we thank you. God bless you. And just, you know, he’s a Mexican-American, and you because of your efforts have sent him to college. And I have been writing letters to him for when I’m in heaven to tell him that what you’ve done for him now he has a great responsibility to pay it forward just as you have done for us.
Donald Trump:
That’s so nice. Thank you.
I have to go down and say hello. Is that okay?

…Very sad but I think it’s going to be really a story of hope and something that is really great is going to happen out of that. You watch.
But it sort of tells me when I first said this people would say, “Oh, it will cost a lot.” Forgetting about the campaign. That’s peanuts by comparison. You know, I’ve spent tens of millions of dollars.
But the big thing – I lost certain businesses and I owned the Miss Universe Pageant. I bought it very inexpensively many years ago – 15 years ago – and because of the fact that they thought I was against this woman or that one, I had a hard time with television.
Now, the good news is I sold it for a wonderful – I was very happy with that. But I didn’t want to sell it. But I sold it and I built it to really a great company. We did a great job with that company – Miss Universe, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA.
But other businesses – I sort of – like the shirts and the ties with Macy’s. Macy’s was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal immigration and they ended the shirts, ties. Who care? I mean, that’s not a big deal.
But I’m doing something – nobody is giving up what I’m giving.
I mean, when Cruz runs, he runs. If he wins, great. If he loses, great. You know, it’s him. He’s a politician. They just – they run, they win, they lose, who knows?
But these guys run for office. That’s all they do.
I’ve always heard that if you’re a very successful person, you can’t run for office, especially for president. You just can’t run for president, and I can see it. I have so much false press about me. Things that are so false.
You know, I saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads on me. 56,000.
In fact, in Florida, I own Doral and in Florida we had the tournament there two weeks. Adam Scott – the great Adam Scott – the great golfer. He was winning. And in between shots, I told you this after the victory speech, in between they have commercials and they were all about Trump. Negative, horrible, negative commercials. Mostly false. Mostly. Not all false. But mostly false, I have to be honest.
But it came out the other day, I think it said “$68 million, 55,000 negative ads.” Negative ads.
And when I was running in Florida, I said “How is it possible to win?” I mean, with all of this because I knew it. You couldn’t turn on in Florida where I was you couldn’t turn on the television without seeing Trump commercials. Sometimes four or five in a row. And they were horrendous. Done by very, very bad people. Very bad, evil people.
And I said, “How it is possible to win?”
And God helped me. Honestly. Because I won in a landslide. I won by almost 20%.
And now they’re doing it here. Club for Growth. It’s a crooked outfit.
Look, Club for Growth – you ever hear this? Club for Growth – a friend of mine, he’s a conservative guy. He goes would you do me a favor? See Club for Growth. I said, “What’s Club for Growth?” He said, “They want to talk to you.” I said, “All right. Send them up.” He’s a friend. He’s a good guy. And now I’m in politics so I have to see people I wouldn’t normally…
So Club for Growth, they come up to my office. This guy was I think a former Congressman. And he tells me a little bit about Club for Growth and I’m falling asleep. And then he goes, “$1 million.” And I said, “$1 million for what? I don’t even know you. I’ve never met you.” I said, “Do me a favor.” I’m trying to be nice and I said, “Go back and write me a little note if you can.” And he was stupid enough to write me a note.
He writes me a letter asking for $1 million. I let him know that I’m not interested. You could be rich. I’d rather take a million and throw it all over this room. I’d rather give it to you, to your boy.
…They write me a letter. It’s like extortion. They asked me for a $1 million. I said no nicely. And then they’re doing ads all over Wisconsin. Club for Growth. They did it all over Florida. Club for Growth. About eminent domain.
By the way, without eminent domain, you wouldn’t have highways, you wouldn’t have hospitals, you wouldn’t have bridges. You need eminent domain. If something’s in your way and you’re building a highway, if you’re producing 7,000 jobs and you need a little corner of someone’s property, every once in a while.
You know, it’s funny. These guys all want the Keystone Pipeline. Right? Everyone. Conservatives. Conservatives want the Keystone Pipeline. I like the Keystone Pipeline too. But they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain, they wouldn’t go 15 feet. They wouldn’t be able to build it.
So, they don’t want eminent domain. They do commercials about eminent domain. They love the Keystone Pipeline, and the whole Keystone Pipeline is based around eminent domain because you’ve got to go from Canada, where Cruz was born, to Texas, where he’s representing. Think of it.
This guy – and don’t forget that. Remember what I said. I’m going to win. Just remember what I said. I’m going to win. And I thank you…
I’m going to win. But remember this. If for some reason he does, he gets the nomination, the first thing – remember, I’m a good prognosticator, I’m a good predictor – the first thing that’s going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue Ted Cruz. He was born in Canada. He lived there for four years. The head of the Harvard Law School, one of the top people in the business in terms of Constitution, is saying that, you know, he’s wrong. And we have a bunch of other people that are much stronger than even that.
Remember this. If Cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is if he doesn’t get – because it’s all establishment. You know, if I go into that whole mess of the convention, I’m not the establishment. I don’t take their money. I don’t hire their people. I don’t do any of that stuff. Okay? So you have a disadvantage.
But if Cruz wins, remember what I said. Just remember. Again, he’s not going to win. But if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few days he will be sued by the Democrats that he doesn’t have the right to be president. And I think they’re right because he wasn’t born on our soil. He wasn’t born. He’s not a natural born citizen. He’s not a natural born citizen.
I don’t like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody. He is not a natural born citizen. So if for some reason he should get the nomination, I really believe you’re wasting your time and boy do we have a problem because you’re going to have somebody that’s going to be sued, probably will lose the lawsuit.
Again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whole thing for a long period of time, and he was a Canadian citizen joint with U.S. until 14 or 15 months ago. Did anyone know that? So he was a senator from Texas, only because of the great Sarah Palin by the way, without Sarah Palin, he could have never won that election. It was a fluke. But he was a Senator from Texas. He lived – he was a joint citizen. Now, he finally gave up his citizenship to Canada like 16 months ago. He said, “Oh, I didn’t know I was a citizen of Canada also.” Just like he didn’t know that Goldman Sachs and Citibank gave him money. I mean, this guy is – you just have to study him, folks.
Look, again, I’m doing this. We’re going to win. We’re going to turn this country around. We’re going to make America great again. We’re going to win a lot. But you have to know the facts.
I love you all. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Get out there and vote! Thank you!

…We did this as a quickie. We wanted to come into this area. We’re staying here tonight.
And I know you have a baseball game, you have a big basketball game. We’re going to go really quickly tonight.
But we’re going to say one thing: We’re going to make America great again. Remember that. Make America great again because that’s what matters.
So, I brought somebody very, very special along. I wonder who that could be? I wonder.
And she’s an incredible woman. She’s an incredible mother. She loves her son Barron so much. And just really something special. And I have to say she will make an unbelievable First Lady.
So I’d like to introduce my wife, Melania. Thank you.
It is wonderful – thank you. We love you too.
It is wonderful to be here today with you and with my husband.
I’m very proud of him. He’s hard worker. He’s kind. He has a great heart. He’s tough. He’s smart. He’s a great communicator. He’s a great negotiator.
He’s telling the truth. He’s a great leader. He’s fair.
As you may know by now, when you attack him, he will punch back 10 times harder.
No matter who you are – a man or a woman – he treats everyone equal.
He’s a fighter, and if you elect him to be your president, he will fight for you and for our country.
He will work for you, and with you and together, we will make America strong and great again.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. I want to thank Melania for that. That was very special.
You know, Wisconsin’s a really special place, and we’ve been all over today. Speeches all over. We had one before. Thousands and thousands of people standing outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. And we had another one in the morning, and it’s been an amazing day, and some phenomenal results.
You see what’s happening with the polls. Boom! Like a rocket ship. It’s like a rocket.
I guess I just heard when I walked in one just came out that we’re 10 points up. But don’t worry about that. Pretend you didn’t hear that. Go out and vote tomorrow. Okay? Go out and vote tomorrow.
You know, I always tell – I used to say this to politicians that run that’d be friends of mine, I’d say, “Pretend you’re a little bit behind. Okay? That way you’d work hard. You’d never forget.”
But you know, there’s somebody that was – I saw just a little while ago in the audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and Melania just said hello and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. And some of you know who she is. Many of you know who she is.
But she was Miss Wisconsin. She has one of the most incredible spirits that I’ve ever seen. She’s got her husband and her son and her son is absolutely magnificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.

And she’s going through a very hard time. And she has been so supportive and so like just incredible of what we’re all – what we’re trying to do. Not me. I’m a messenger. What we’re trying to do – make America great again and bring it back and stop letting the world take advantage of us both militarily and we don’t win anymore.
We don’t win anymore. We don’t win with trade. We don’t win with the military.
We pay for everybody else’s military.
We don’t know what we’re doing.
And she saw it and she was here early. And she knows that we’re going to take care of our people, and it’s going to be America first. It’s got to be America first. We have no choice. We have no choice.
And she’s with a friend of hers who’s very well-known, Chelsea Cooley, who is a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. Also a great singer but I won’t even mention that because Chelsea would be the last to want to have people know that. Chelsea is such a great friend of Melissa Young and Melissa Young – I just want to bring her and Chelsea onto the stage and maybe Melissa would like to say something and Chelsea. But this is just an unbelievable woman.
So could I ask Melissa to come up on stage please?
This is the greatest man I have ever met. His heart is made of pure gold.
He saved me in so many ways and changed my world.
Yes, he gave me a lot of gifts in my life – the gift of compassion and showing my son how to pay it forward.
But above that, if this man becomes president of the United States of America, he is going to give me the best gift ever and that is I’ll know that when I leave this world, I won’t be here to watch my son grow but I’ll know that he is going to grow up in a country that is safe. That’s what every mother wishes for.
And please, my fellow Wisconsinites, please, tomorrow vote for Mr. Trump. Give yourselves that sense of peace. Give that to your children.
This is the greatest man I have ever met and he is going to make America great again.
Thank you all so much. God bless you.
She was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and we all have to speak from the heart.
And you noticed no teleprompters? We don’t have teleprompters. We want to do it right from here and from here and from here.
But I just want to – I saw Melissa, and I said, “I have to have you up” because her story’s an amazing story and it’s a story of courage and we’re going to work with her family and we’re going to make sure everything goes well.
Okay, thank you all very much.
So, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, I said to a few of the folks I’ve got to explain what’s happening because our country is being decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by TPP, which Cruz wants badly and which is going to destroy Wisconsin.
This Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. Cruz is pushing it hard.
Kasich, I don’t think he’s a player here. I mean, the guy is one in 32. He’s one and it was in his own state. And if I would have campaigned there two more days instead of staying in Florida, I would have won in my opinion Ohio. He’s one and 32.
Now, in all fairness, Jeb Bush was doing a lot better than that. Many people were doing better. It’s called you get out. He’s taking my votes. We have to get over 50%. And how do you do that?
Look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, “I’m one in 32. In other words, I’ve won one out of 32 states,” and you do what Marco did, which was great, and you do what Rand Paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and you get out.

And by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say “I want to run” and you go to the convention and you run.
But it would be nice to see – because I’ll tell you what, he takes my votes away much more than he does Cruz. And I don’t like it. I don’t think it’s right. I don’t think it’s appropriate.
But you know what? If we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. Okay, folks? I mean, okay?
But Kasich voted for NAFTA. NAFTA was a disaster for Wisconsin and it was a disaster for our country.
Ted Cruz wants TPP and it is going to make NAFTA look like peanuts. What they’re doing to us with those documents, and Cruz is the one that insisted that we can’t talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the agreement. He wouldn’t let them do it. He’s the one that fought currency devaluation. That’s the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking our business, taking our money, and taking our jobs. And we can’t let this go on any longer.
Now, they’re controlled by their PACs. They’re controlled by the people that put up their campaign contributions. They’re controlled, you know, with the lobbyists in Washington. They have signs on their forehead. It’s like stamped into their forehead – “I take care of Cruz.” They’re specialists. “I take care of Kasich.” “I take care of Hillary.”
Oh, Hillary. Ayeyeye. “Take care of Hillary.”
So we can’t let it happen anymore. We can’t let it happen anymore.
It’s time – you know Obama used to say, “Time for change”? I’ll say it’s time for change but real change this time not that change. Real change.
Obama yesterday – President Obama yesterday for the first time he started having reservations about the Iran deal. I could have told him that six months ago, nine months ago, long before it was signed. The ink isn’t even dry and now he’s finally starting to understand it was a big beautiful mistake and it’s only going to get worse.
And by the way, Iran is getting worse. They were supposed to come into the community. Remember? What a bunch of babies. Are we babies? Are we babies? Hello over there.
They were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you know, get involved.
Now, you see they just ordered 118 Airbus jets. Those are the big jets. 100. They didn’t order Boeing.
The reason – one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. So we give them $150 billion and they’re not even allowed to give us money by investing, by buying our products. Okay? How crazy are we? How much longer is it going to last? When are we going to get smart? When are we going to stop?
We as a country are being ripped off. We are being ripped off by virtually every single country in the world. Okay? Whether it’s militarily or trade.
We don’t win anymore. We can’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS.
Can you imagine Gen. MacArthur or Gen. George Patton? They say get rid of ISIS. What do you think?
…It’s so sad to see what’s happening to our country and we’re going to turn it around and we’re going to change it. And we’re going to make it rich again, and we’re going to make it strong again.
So, and so many different elements, and I’ve been talking about trade. I always talk about trade.
Because when I announced on June 16th coming down the escalator with Melania, it was like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras; I’ve never seen anything like it. So many cameras. And I took a deep breadth and I said, “Let’s go.” Because we have to do it.
You know, it takes guts. Running for president, believe me, takes guts. It takes a lot of guts. Believe me.
And even for the politicians they run at least they’re out on the line, and then you see the dishonesty. You see where I won Louisiana and then I find out that I’m not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that I beat. What kind of stuff is that?
And somebody said, “Well, there’s a rule and another rule.” I don’t care about rules, folks. I go out and I campaign. We win. We win. We get the delegates. Right?
But in the meantime, we have millions more votes than Cruz. We’ve beaten him in most of the states. I mean, we’re just winning so much. And we’re winning by almost 300 delegates.
So we’re doing great. And I think we close it out before the convention. I think we actually close it out before the convention.

And that’s like a prizefighter. You know, they go into unfriendly territory, and the champ, he goes in. And they say, “What do you think? You may have an unfriendly decision.” He says, “No, when you knock them out, there’s no unfriendly decision.”
If we get the delegates, we’ve pulled out a knock-out. And that’s the way it’s going to be, and I can see that happening because more and more people are calling, they want to get on board.
Frankly, when I looked at what happened – a friend of mine, who’s a great – you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down – not very far from here. And he said, “With Wisconsin, you’re going win.” I said, “Well, what do you think? But I’m not seeing polls that are great. I’m a little bit down. I’m down in some. I’m a little bit down.” He says, “No, no, you’re going to win. But you have to be there. You have to come in and you have to talk to the people.” Like we did this afternoon at the hangar. And he said, “You’re going to win. I mean, you’re going to win.” He’s a very smart guy, I want to tell you. Great guy. But he said, “You’ve got to come in.”
We’ve been making – I’ve been making speeches, three today, four yesterday, three or four the other day. We’re here constantly. You’re going to get so sick of me. You’re going to say, “Oh, get him the hell out of here.”
No, we are making so much progress and it’s been so inspiring to see the people. I mean, look at even you people. You don’t sit down. If you want, you can. Oh, stay up. Stand up. What the heck? Hey, we’ve got plenty of time to sit down, right? We’ve got plenty of time.
But I do appreciate that. That’s a sign of affection, and it’s a sign of respect, and I really do appreciate it. That’s really nice.
So we have to bring our country back and so many different things.
With China, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.
With Mexico, we will build a wall. We will have strong borders. Strong borders. Believe me. We have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. The wall’s going to cost $10 billion to build. And people, the politicians are saying, “How can you possibly get them to pay?”
Let me tell you something, folks. We have some good business people in this audience.
When you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, that’s real easy. And that’s on a yearly basis the $58 billion. It’s really easy.
And they don’t understand it. They said, “How are you going to get them to pay?”
I said, “It’s so easy.” And you understand it. Just rely on me. Okay? Rely. So easy. That’s so easy. And we’re going to have a strong border.
You know, two days ago I was greatly honored because the Border Patrol, the folks that do a great job, and they’re told to stand back but they don’t want to stand back. They want to do their job properly. They’re proud people. They’re incredible people. Frankly, before the wall goes up, we might not even need the wall, but we’re building it anyway. Okay? We’re building it. Believe me.
But the Border Patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave me an endorsement two days ago. And I didn’t ask for it. I didn’t know.
First time, first time they’ve ever done it. Right? First time, they’ve ever done it and they gave me an endorsement. And it’s so important.
Now, Sheriff Joe [Arpaio] from Arizona. You know, I won Arizona very big, and Sheriff Joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.
Look, we have to have strong borders. We can’t let the Syrians come in that we have no idea who they are, where they’re coming from. We don’t know if they’re Syrians.
This could be the all-time great Trojan horse. Who knows?
I have as big a heart as anybody. We want to help them. We want to build safe zones in Syria.
I want to get the Gulf States to pay for it. The Gulf States have nothing but money. We don’t have money. We will run it. We will do a good job. We’ll get it done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. We can’t do it.
…I keep getting these requests. You know, Al Green – the great Al Green wrote “The Snake”. How many people have heard “The Snake”? How many people? Oh, do you want to hear “The Snake”? Do you want to hear it? I mean, people love it and I love it because it says what’s going to happen to us if we’re not careful.
And this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are going – we’re going to have problems. We’re going to have huge problems. Allowing people in from areas of the world we don’t know where they come from. We don’t know where their documents are. They say they don’t have documents. They have no papers. No nothing. We let them in. How stupid can we be?
So this is called “The Snake” and I think it’s pretty good. All right? Are you ready for this? A couple of you have heard it but some of you haven’t.

“On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. ‘Oh well,’ she cried, ‘I’ll take you in, and I’ll take care of you.’ ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ cried the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she’d taken in had been revived. ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. ‘You’re so beautiful,’ she cried. ‘But if I hadn’t brought you in by now, heaven’s sake you might have died.’ Now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. ‘Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven’s sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,’ sighed the very, very healthy snake. ‘I saved you,’ cried the woman, ‘And you bit me. Heaven’s why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I’m going to die.’ ‘Oh shut up, silly woman,’ said the reptile with a grin. ‘You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.’”
Right?
That’s what’s happening to our country, folks. That’s what’s happening to our country and we can’t let it happen. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. We have to be strong. And if we’re not, we’re not going to have a country.
And we need borders and we’re going to have borders.
And we need great trade deals and we’re going to make great trade deals.
And we can’t let Mexico and I have great respect for Mexico and I respect their leaders but we can’t let Mexico and China and any country you want to name steal our business, steal our jobs.
When you look at what’s happening in Wisconsin – and you see it – the reason I beat your governor and I beat him badly was I just read off the statistics. I just read – all I did, I stood up and I read statistics. You’re losing jobs…It’s very average. It’s very average.
Our country is less than average. Okay? Our country is doing so badly. And it’s just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to get really tough. We have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. We have to do what’s right for our country.
When the great Ford Motor Company – great company – when they build a $2.5 billion plant in Mexico, when Nabisco moves its massive plant to Mexico from Chicago, we can’t let it happen.
When Carrier Air Conditioners, as you know, they just announced they’re moving to Mexico.
Pfizer is moving to Ireland.
But let me just tell you. So, I watched the politicians and they have no business instincts. But more importantly, they’re taken care of.
You know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, “Donald, let me ask you a question. These politicians – are they really that dumb?” I said, “No, they’re not actually that dumb. Some are. But they’re not actually that dumb. They’re all taken care of by the special interests. And when you want something done, you see certain people in Washington.”
Hey, who is better than me? I mean, take a look at me. I was before June 16th, I was a part of the establishment and they will do not what’s right for you but they will do what’s right for the company they represent or the country they represent and the United States continues to get ripped off, ripped off, ripped off.
And a lot of times, I’ll say, “How can a deal be so stupidly made? These people are so stupid.” They’re not stupid. They’re doing it for themselves. They’re doing it because they want campaign contributions. They’re doing it because they want money put in their PACs. They are totally controlled by the money. Believe me. They are totally controlled by the money, and that’s not good for our country. Okay? That’s not good because terrible things are happening and we’re getting weaker and weaker.
Hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.

You look at the jobs we have. Even in Wisconsin, I mean, you see the jobs, the manufacturing, it’s all so down and so gloomy and throughout the United States. And it’s a disaster what’s going on in our country. We’re not going to have jobs left.
And they do it with manipulation of currency. And they do it with guile. They do it with so many different elements that our people don’t even know what’s happening.
Our politicians in most cases don’t even know what’s happening. And when they do know what’s happening and they let it happen, it’s even worse.
So I’m not taking money from anybody. I’m self-funding my campaign.
And we’re going to get it. We’re going to get it.
Now, I look at this U.S. manufacturing – I mean, just look at this. Look at these charts. I mean, you can see them…This is where we’re going.
You know that’s not good. Right? This is where we’re going.
There was one that I just saw. Just got this. It’s like incredible.
Look at this. This is U.S. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. Look at that chart. Another couple of years, there won’t be any jobs.
And the jobs we have now are bad jobs. These are bad jobs. These aren’t good jobs. And everybody admits that. Even the other side says, “We agree. They’re bad jobs.”
And the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment – it’s a fictitious number. When you stop looking for a job, you’re considered statistically employed.
It was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly by politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like the economy.
The economy is not good. The economy is bad.
We’re sitting on a bubble. The banks have money. They give it to you for nothing if you’re rich. If you’re not rich, that’s when you need the money, they don’t loan it to you. So the people can’t do jobs.
Probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies, you can’t get the banks to give you money. The banks are controlled by the regulators. They system that this country is run under is out of control.
And we’re going to change it. We’re going to bring back the jobs. We’re going to bring back our companies.
And you know I’ve had such a response. And the reason I’ve had response is because of that and then I look at the ads today.
I’m in hotel and I look at the ads and Cruz makes up these ads. “We’re going to bring back jobs” – he’s using my same language.
Here’s the problem. They don’t know where to begin. They don’t know where to begin.
And if they did, Lyin’ Ted, lyin’, he comes up. Did you ever see a guy like this? Just look what he did with Ben Carson.
Ben Carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and Lyin’ Ted, remember in Iowa, he said “Ben has left the race. He’s left the race.” This was on election day. It’s not like two days before or the day after. “During the election, he left the race.” Okay? And people believed him and thousands of votes were cast not for Ben but for Ted Cruz. It’s pure deception. It’s lying.
And then there were many other things. And actually during one of the debates, Marco Rubio looked over and he said, “You’re a liar.” And I said, “You know, I never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it.” So we now call him Lyin’ Ted – Lyin’. It’s crazy. It’s crazy.
I mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. And you know, I’ve met a lot tougher people but I’ve never met any human that lied as much as him.
And he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support I have? I have Jerry Falwell Jr. from Liberty University. I have all of these people. I have such incredible support.
And the evangelicals – he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but they don’t like liars and they see he lies so much.
Do you ever see him – he walks up and he walks in with the Bible, held high. Right? Held high and then he starts to lie.
Boy, he is bad.
So anyways, I don’t think that you’re going to fall for that. I really don’t think that anybody is going to fall – he doesn’t talk. He debates…I said, “Ted, take it easy. Just talk. Talk. Talk.”
But we’re doing really well. The whole thing is just working out. And I loved being here. You know, I’ve been here for a long time. I’ve been here for a long time. I’m going here – we’re going to stay tomorrow. We’re going to have some, I think I’m doing Fox and Friends tomorrow morning. I’m doing some shows tomorrow. We’re going to do some shows and we’re going to be around and we’re going to make sure – we want to bring this home.
If we can – you know, we have a movement going on, folks. And it’s a movement of intelligence, actually. It’s a movement of common sense. That’s all it is.
We’re not going to let Carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, move to Mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of the country. It’s not going to happen anymore.

And I’m a free trader. And they say, “He’s not a – “ Remember Jeb Bush? “He is not a conservative.” I said, “What?” I am a conservative. But you know what? I believe in free trade.
But when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the free trade.
If you don’t have smart people or if you have people like Ted Cruz that are totally controlled by the people that give him the money and they’re controlled by the establishment. I mean, look at the establishment.
This guy in his whole life didn’t know what the word establishment meant. Now you have all these people going because they said, “Oh man, Trump is terrible. He doesn’t want any of our money.”
I had one friend that came into my office – I don’t think I’ve ever said this before. He came into my office. He wanted to give me millions of dollars. I said, “I can’t take your money. I don’t want your money. I’m self-funding.” He said, “No, no, no, you’ve got to be kidding.” He didn’t even know. He thought I was kidding. He wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. I said no, no, I don’t want. Anyway, he was finally convinced that I didn’t want his money and he’s leaving. And I said, “By the way, what are you going to do now?” He said, “I’m going to give it to another candidate.” And I said, “Why?”
They’re gamblers. They have to do it. It’s like almost a disease. They have to do it. It’s the craziest thing.
He loves me. He wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. Right? I would have had the greatest Super PAC in the history if I would have taken all the money.
And my whole life, you know, I’ve said this before, my whole life as a business person is this. Right? It’s okay. Nothing wrong with it. I take. I keep taking. I take and take.
But now I’m going to take for the United States. We’re going to take. We’re not going to be the stupid people anymore. We’re not going to be the stupid people anymore. We can’t be. We can’t be.
And with NATO when they don’t pay, you know, I said – I was asked a question by Wolf Blitzer, a very fair question about NATO.
Now, you know, I’ve been a businessman. World class. I filed my business papers. They were phenomenal. Everybody says great, great, great. I built a great company. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow. Some of the greatest assets in the world.
And I tell you that only for one reason – that’s the thinking we need in Washington. We need some of that thinking.
And Wolf Blitzer asked me a question on television. He said, “Let me just ask you about NATO.” Now, I haven’t been asked about NATO a lot but I understand NATO and I understand common sense, and I’m like a smart person like many of the people in this room. Hopefully all of the people in this room.
But he asked me about NATO. I said, “It’s obsolete.” This was my first thing.
And you know what? I’m the first one.
Guys that study NATO and good people but they study NATO and they say, “I don’t believe it. What he just said, I never thought of it.” They study it because they’re so into it that they don’t realize because it was really put there.
You had the Soviet Union and now you have Russia, which is different but Russia is powerful so we could sort of say that’s a balance. So we’ll leave it.
But it doesn’t really cover terrorism like it’s supposed to. Doesn’t have the right countries. I mean, many of the countries and there aren’t – that you associate with terrorism.
And so I said number one, it’s obsolete.
I said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the United States pay far too much proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect other people?
And the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes – headlines the next day – “Trump doesn’t want NATO, wants to disband NATO”. And that’s not what I said.
I said, you’ve got to pay your bills. And you know what? If you can’t pay your bills, honestly, there should be – they’ve got to go because we can’t do it. You know, this isn’t 68 years ago. This isn’t when it was originally formed like many, many years ago, many decades ago, and you have to re-do things.
But it is interesting. Some of the smartest people have said “What Trump said is genius. It’s obsolete. And you know what? It’s true.” There’s a lot of people, a lot of countries being given a free ride. We can’t have the free rides any more, folks.
…Thank you. Well, we need somebody with that…And it’s America first, folks. It’s America first.
So then, as you know, North Korea is a big problem. North Korea is a problem. A problem that could be solved easily by China but they don’t want to solve it because they want to tweak us. They’re building in the South China Seas a massive military fort. You know what’s going on. They shouldn’t be doing that.
And they’re taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of trade, you talk about the kind of money. How about this? We owe China $1.7 trillion.
Now, they take our money. They take our jobs…I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.
I’m not angry with China. If you can get away with it, you do it.
But they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. They take everything.
We owe them $1.7 trillion. That’s sort of like a magic act. Doesn’t it? Amazing.
Japan, they send cars by the millions. They come off those boats. Los Angeles – I was there at the docks. I looked at the biggest boats you’ve ever seen. Biggest, greatest ships you’ve ever seen. The cars are pouring off the ships. We owe them $1.5 trillion.

It’s like, well, how does this all happen? Okay? How does it happen?
Here’s the story, folks.
We’re going to change our thinking. We’re going to be the smart people again. We’re going to be so smart. We’re going to be so sharp.
So a lot of people don’t know we protect Japan. Do you know that? Does anybody know? You might know…We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect South Korea.
When you want a television set, who do you get it from? South Korea. Samsung. LG. You get it from South Korea.
So we protect all and big ships they make. These are monster, monster economies. We protect them.
They don’t pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive military apparatus that we supply.
And you know what? We get that because we have people that don’t know what they’re doing in Washington for many years. I mean, I’m not even blaming it – Obama’s the worst. He’s the worst. The worst.
I mean, when he just realizes, I mean he just realized that the Iran deal is a bad deal. It just took him – realize – I said, “Oh, why didn’t you listen to me two years ago?” Just two years ago if he would have listened – can you imagine? Did you ever see a deal take so long?
By the way, usually when a deal takes that long, it’s bad automatically. I can usually tell you that.
But anyway, so we protect Japan. So it comes out…I said, look, I would have to tell Japan and I’m talking about other nations also because I have great friends from Japan, I have great friends from South Korea. We have to go see them, go to talk to, have a meeting with them, “We love protecting you.” We don’t want them to arm necessarily. But you know, at some point, how long are we going to do this?
So we have to see them and we have to say, “You’ve got to help us out.”
You know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid of because we’re sitting on one of the worst bubbles you’ll ever see. Okay? Believe me. We’ve got to straighten it out.
We’ve got to straighten out our trade deals. We’ve got to straighten out our military deals. We’re taking care of all these countries.
So we go to Japan. And here’s what the…I was telling the people and they said “Wow, that sounds good.” We’ve got to take – you’ve got to take care of us.
Now, they’ll probably say initially “No”. And then we leave and then they’re going to say, “Yes.”
But if they don’t say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal to walk. You have to be…
The problem with the Iran deal was that Secretary Kerry was like an amateur. Call him amateur night. He refused to walk. They were laughing at him in the streets of Iran. They were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it was even made. They were saying “This deal is unbelievable.” They were laughing at the Secretary of State of this country. They were laughing at the United States saying that this deal is great. And they were dancing. Remember? Burning the flag dancing?
When they start dancing about a deal that I’m making, when they start burning the American flag, I’m out of there. Bye bye. Good luck.
And he just kept going back.
And I kept waiting. I wanted to call him. I wanted to call him. I wanted to say, “Walk.” Because every single thing – he’d say, “We would like to get this.” “No!” “Oh, okay. You’ve got it. We would like to get that.” “No!”
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. It’s an unbelievable deal.
But just yesterday, Obama just yesterday he brought it up that he’s very unhappy.
I mean, think of it. Think of it. $150 billion. It’s the worst deal. We didn’t get our prisoners back. We should have had the prisoners back before we started negotiating. Increase the sanctions. Don’t sit at the table. Say “You give our prisoners back or we’re not starting.” You leave. They’ll say “No”. You leave. And what happens? You double up the sanctions. Within 24 hours, they call you and they say, “You’ve got your prisoners.” That could have been years ago. Right?
So we have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
Here’s the story. You need Trump. You do. You need Trump. You bet…You do. I mean, you’ve got to have Trump.
I mean, it’s sort of interesting because I see when I turn on the television, I see these ads about myself by crooked people.
I see these ads and they’re mostly wrong. A little bit sometimes are right but they’re all negative. You know. And I’m looking, I’m watching this on television – ad after ad.
In Florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and I won it in a landslide…Does anybody read? Does anybody watch television? You know, it’s not much for the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million – a record number in Florida.
They spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide – listen to this one – 55,000 negative ads on me. Most of them was made up.
I’ll give you one good example.
We have the Club for Growth, which is forget them. These are among the dumbest people that you’ll ever meet.
They come to my office. They want me to give them $1 million.
A friend asked me, “Please see them.” I said, “Who are they?” “They’re Club for Growth.” Whatever that means.
So they come to my office. They asked me for $1 million. I say, “No, thank you.” And that’s it.

Then they write me a letter, which I posted, asking me for $1 million. I said very nicely – I’m not a bad person – I said nicely “No, thank you.” I mean, you can be rich but you don’t have to be stupid. Okay? Why am I going to give them $1 million?
So, what happens is all of a sudden I see their name all over the place – “Club for Growth” and they talk about, you know, different things – ridiculous things. I mean, they’re the worst ads.
And by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, “If Cruz and Kasich got together and you added the delegates” – and they showed the delegates. Right? And you add them up – and I’m over here with a lot. And they said – and they add them up and they show a graph that goes much higher than mine and it’s much lower than mine.
They’re a fraud. And what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was a week ago. And we tweeted about it. And everybody’s talking about it. And I see it last night again.
They’re crooked. So here’s what they do. It’s like a form of extortion, I guess. Right? When you think of it. They come to your office. They ask for $1 million. You don’t give them $1 million. They go out. They do negative ads.
These are the people – you know, if these people about Trump – they call it like “No Trump”. What do they call that thing? They call it “Never Trump”. Oh, you need Trump so badly though.
I was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligently against President Barack Hussein Obama, they would have beaten him. They would have had great budgets. They would have had everything they wanted.
But with him…I always say, “Obama is the worst negotiator I’ve ever seen.” You look at the – no, except with the Republicans. He gets everything he wants.
I mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wanted – fund Obamacare, bring people into the country that shouldn’t be here. He got everything he wanted.
So he is the worst negotiator worldwide.
We have Sergeant [Bowe] Bergdahl. Right? We get Bergdahl, a traitor. No, no, think of it. This is a negotiation. We get Bergdahl. And they get – what do they get? Five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years in Gitmo, which we’re not closing down by the way. Okay? We’re going to run it.
So we get Bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six – probably six – people were killed going out to try and get him back. He left. He’s a traitor.
So we get Bergdahl, and that’s what we get. And they get five people that are right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody in sight, including us. Okay?
We’ve got to stop it. We’ve got to stop it.
So with Japan, I said they got to – maybe we’ve got to walk. And the next day the headlines – “Trump doesn’t want to defend Japan”, “Trump wants Japan to get their nukes”.
Okay, here’s the story, folks. You have Japan. Japan is very concerned with North Korea.
You know, number one, I like the way it is now but I want them to pay a lot more money. They probably will. But if they don’t, it’s not so bad if they are at heads. Maybe we’re not supposed to get into that fight. That’s a bad fight. Maybe we’re not supposed to. Okay? Okay?
Same thing with South Korea. I mean, every time he raises his head and he starts talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating over, our planes start going over. We do all sorts of exercise. What are we get out of this? We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
So, we have to be taken care of.
Now, I’m talking as a person financially. Okay? I’m also talking militarily. But I’m talking financially.
We don’t have a country that can do this anymore.
Saudi Arabia, until the oil went down and now they’re still making a fortune. But Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. We protect Saudi Arabia. If we weren’t there, Saudi Arabia wouldn’t be there. If Saudi Arabia didn’t have us for years protecting them, they would have been gone a long time ago as Saudi Arabia. Somebody else would have it, probably maybe Iraq because he would have come back.
And by the way, speaking of that, you know, I was against going into Iraq. Everyone says, “Oh, Trump is going to be very tough.” I was against going into Iraq from the very beginning, from the very beginning.
And I’m going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. But you know what? Hopefully, we never have to use it. Nobody’s going to tell us what to do though. We have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.
But if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. We’d be much stronger because the Middle East is a disaster. You see the great migration. It’s a catastrophe.
You see what’s going on in Germany. It’s a total mess. What she has done.

Can you imagine? She was Person of the Year.
I was supposed to be Person of the Year on Time Magazine. She beat me out and she destroyed Germany. Can you believe this?
That’s not good. I wonder if Time Magazine had that one to do over again what they’d say. I think we’ll be in much better shape. Well, they’ve treated me nice. I’ve been on the cover a lot.
And the reason we’re on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the likes of which people have never seen.
So here’s the story. Here’s the story.
You know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, “What you’ve done is incredible.” I said, “No, no, I have to win.” He said, “No, no, it makes no difference. If you win, if you lose, it doesn’t matter. What you’ve done is down in the history books. You will be cover for all time. It’s incredible.” I said, “No, sir. No, sir. I have to win. Because if I don’t win, to me, I will consider it a tremendous waste of time and waste of money but a tremendous waste of time.”
So here’s the story. Here’s the story. We’re going to take care of our Second Amendment. It’s being chipped and chipped.
We’re going to get rid of Common Core. We’re going to bring education back locally.
We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. You’re going to have great health insurance.
We’re going to save your Social Security. We’re going to save your Medicare. We are going to save it because we are going to make our country rich again. We’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re not going to let our jobs go. And we’re going to be able to afford – you’ve been paying in it a long time and a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. It’s not going to happen. Okay? Remember that. It’s not going to happen.
We’re going to start winning again, folks. We don’t win anymore. We don’t win anymore. We don’t win with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We’re going to win. We’re going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
We don’t win with our vets. Our vets are being treated worse than illegal immigrants. Our vets are being treated so unfairly. They’re our great people.
And other people – you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a lot of the vets will come up to me and say, “You know, Mr. Trump, we follow closely what’s going on. You’re the only person that ever mentions the vets.” Right?
And Hillary Clinton recently said about the vets that they’re being taken care of just fine. They’re not being take care of fine. They’re not being taken care of. She said they’re being taken care of just fine.
I know the vets. Nobody’s spent more time with the vets that are running. And we’re going to take care of our vets. Okay?
We are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.
I have the greatest people in the world for dealing.
We use political hacks that don’t know what they’re doing. They’re dealing against the smartest people in China, the smartest people in Japan, the smartest people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and we’re not using them anymore.
We’re using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this country and they’re endorsing me, and I know the best ones from the not so great ones. And we’re going to have great, great trade deals.

We’re going to have a strong border. We’re going to have a real border. We’re going to have a wall. Mexico is paying for it. We’re going to have a wall.
And we’re going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country. Because if you look at what’s going on and you look at the tremendous crime and you look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, it’s – the drugs are pouring like water. They’re pouring across.
You know when I won – New Hampshire is a special place to me because they were the first victory I had. And I won New Hampshire, and I wasn’t expected to win it; Jeb was expected to win it. And I won it in landslide.
And I’d go around and I’d see the people of New Hampshire, and they tell me, “Mr. Trump, our biggest problem is heroin.” I said, “Heroin?” It doesn’t make sense. You know, you look at the beautiful trees or the woods or the roadways and the lakes. I said, “Heroin?” It just doesn’t work. It’s incongruous. Right? It doesn’t work. But it was heroin. And I said, “If I get in, we’re going to stop that problem.” Then I said, “Where does it come from?” They said, “It comes from the southern border. They come right in.”
Now, New Hampshire rated it their number one problem. They have a tremendous problem. But many other communities, including you, but many other communities have this problem. We’re going to stop it cold, folks. We’re going to stop it cold.
And the bottom line is this. Look, we have a big, big day. And you’re going to look back on this evening and you’re going to say that was one of the great evenings of your life because we love the country. We love the country.
…I love you too. Thank you.
Really do. I love the people. I love the people.
You know, they say Donald Trump – my base is so strong. They say, “Donald Trump can do almost anything.” In fact, one person today said “Anything”.
And they interviewed a woman, I saw her last night on television sitting in a hotel room, which was not the most beautiful room I’ve ever been. It was very clean, and I only want clean. I don’t care about the room. I want clean.
But they were sitting there and they said to a woman – a wonderful woman, probably 55 years old, and her friends were there. And they said, “What would it take to get you to vote for somebody other than Donald Trump?” She said, “Don’t play that game. There’s nothing he can do that would get me to vote against him.” And I wanted to go up and I wanted to hug that television set.
I wanted to – I wish I could find out who she is. But we have so many people like that. We’re all like that. I mean, a big chunk of the country is like that because we’re tired of stupidity. We’re tired of seeing what’s happening to our great country.
So, here’s the deal. You’re going to go home and you’re going to remember this.
But much more importantly, tomorrow, you get everybody you can and I promise you. You’re going to be so proud of your country. You’re going to go out and vote. You’re going to be so proud of your president. But forget that. You’re going to be so proud of this country again.
And you’re going to remember the evening because we’re going to start winning again. We’re going to win on trade. We’re going to win with our military. We’re going to knock out the ISIS.
We’re going to win. We are going to win with the military. We’re going to knock out ISIS. We’re going to knock them out.
We’re going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. It’s not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to win at the border. We’re going to win with education.
We’re going to win with our Second Amendment. So many people talk to me about the Second Amendment.
We’re going to win at every single element of what we’re doing. And every single thing we’re going to win, win, win.
And you’re going to say, “That was the single greatest vote that I have ever cast”, and you’re going to look back and you’re going to be proud of yourselves and you’re going to be proud of your country again.
So thank you very much everybody. This is a great, great honor. Thank you!
Get out and vote! I love you all! Thank you! Thank you very much! Thank you!

…The people that know me the best, the people of New York where they give us this kind of a vote. And it’s just incredible and I guess we’re close to 70% and we’re going to end at a very high level and get a lot more delegates than anybody projected even in their wildest imaginations.
So I just want to thank everybody here. I want to thank my family.
I want to thank – I really want to thank my team. My team has been amazing. And you know, it’s actually a team of unity. It’s evolving but people don’t understand that. The press does understand it. They just don’t want to talk about it. That’s okay. Just keep talking. It’s very important. Keep talking.
But this has been an incredible evening. It’s been an incredible day and week.
We went all over New York state. New York state has problems like virtually every other state in the union.
Our jobs are being sucked out of our state. They’re being taken out of our country and we’re not going to let it happen anymore. We’re going to stop it.

Very importantly and behind me I have to say we have some of our great businessmen of the world. Carl Icahn is here some place. Where’s Carl?
…But we have our great leaders and it been really something. It has been really something amazing.
And believe me, we are going to use our great business people to negotiate unbelievable trade deals so we bring our jobs back and we don’t let our companies go to Mexico and all of these other countries anymore. We’re going to keep the jobs here.
You’re going to be very proud of this country very soon.
We’re going to build our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before.
Nobody is going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
We’re going to take care of our vets. Our vets are our great people and we have forgotten our vets. Illegal immigrants are taken care of in many cases better than our vets. That’s not going to happen anymore. That is not going to happen.
We’re getting rid of Obamacare. It’s going to be repealed and replaced. It is a total disaster with premiums going up 35%, 55%. It’s going to probably end of its own volition. We’re getting rid of it.
We’re bringing Common Core – we’re knocking it out. We’re cutting it. It’s going to be over. And we’re bringing education locally – local communities are going to take care of their educational needs and people have been waiting for that for a long time.
So with all of the things that have happened, today, tonight, and over the week, I’ll tell you what, this has been an amazing week.
All over New York state – we went to Syracuse, we went to Albany – 20,000 people. You know, on average, we’d have 15,000 to 20,000 people. We went to Rochester. We went to Bethpage. We went all over.
And you know what? The people of this country and the people of this state truly are great and amazing people. We are going to be so strong again.

Well, thank you very much everyone.
I want to start by, as always, thanking my family. My wife, Melania. My kids – they’re not kids anymore but they’re kids as far as I’m concerned. They’ll always be my kids. And I want to thank my great parents who are looking down right now and my brother looking down on us. I want to thank my entire family, including Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert.
And it’s been some unbelievable day and evening and year. I never have been through anything like this but it’s a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful thing to behold, and we’re going to make America great again. We’re going to make America great again.
So important – so important that the people of Indiana have been incredible.
I started as you know not very long ago – about six weeks ago – and I was told that I had a 20 point deficit.
And I went there and I worked very hard and I campaigned and I made lots of speeches and met lots of incredible people – incredible people. You don’t get better, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. And toward the end, it was like I didn’t want to leave. I almost said, “Maybe I’ll just never leave” and it resonated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.
It was a tremendous victory.
And I have to thank Bobby Knight. Boy, Bobby Knight was incredible. He was incredible.
I always that people like that – there aren’t many – but it’s called tough, smart, and they know how to win. And that’s what our country needs. We have to win again. We have to know how to win.
And we haven’t won. We’ve been losing all the time. We lose with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We lose with trade. We lose with borders. We lose everything.
We’re not going to lose. We’re going to start winning again and we’re going to win big league. Believe me.
So when I got back tonight and I started watching all of the different networks, I could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks like a massive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.

And I must say in staying in various places in Indiana, I turned on the television and all I saw was negative ads, negative one after another after another.
And I called my people and I said, “How can we win? It’s just constantly.” It was the same as in Florida. You know, there’ve been 60,000 negative ads.
I got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. In fact, two weeks ago it was 55,000. Now it’s 60,000 negative ads – most of which are absolutely false and disgusting. And I said how can anybody endure this?
I had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between segments of a show that I was watching. And I said that’s just incredible.
And the people are so smart. They don’t buy it. They get it.
And it’s tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent – millions and millions of dollars. And they were comparing it. They think it was probably $8 million was spent against me and we spent $900,000. So, I mean, to me that’s the way it’s supposed to be. That’s something that makes me feel really, really very good.
And now we’re going to Nebraska where I have – I just hear we’re doing really wonderfully. I look forward to that very much.
And West Virginia. And we’re going to get those miners back to work. I’ll tell you what. We’re going to get those miners back to work.
We’re not going to be Hillary Clinton, and I watched her three or four weeks ago where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers and she was talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work again.
Let me tell you, the miners in West Virginia and Pennsylvania which was so great to me last week and Ohio and all over, they’re going to start to work again. Believe me. You’re going to be proud again to be miners.
So we’ll be going there. I must say this tremendous run that we’ve had started with New York when we had almost 62%. And don’t forget, that’s with three people. So 62% with two people is a massive landslide. But 63% almost – just a little over 62% – when you have that kind of a number with three people, it’s actually unheard of.
And all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, it’s tremendous, and we were getting very high numbers. And some of the numbers in my opinion that I got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 people. I think that might actually be more and better than getting 62% in New York. But we never got the credit for that.
But now we don’t need the credit because we’re going after Hillary Clinton. She will not be a great president. She will not be a good president. She will be a poor president.
She doesn’t understand trade. Her husband signed perhaps in the history of the world the single worst trade deal ever done. It’s called NAFTA.
And I was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. Now I’ve known Syracuse and I’ve known Poughkeepsie and I’ve known all of the different places that I visited in New York and then Pennsylvania and then Maryland, which treated me so great the people are incredible.

And all of the different state – Connecticut. And I’ve witnessed what it’s done really firsthand. And it has been indeed carnage.
And we’re going to change it around.
We’re not going to let Carrier and all of these companies just think they can move – go to another country, make their products, sell it back to us, and we get only one thing: We get unemployment. Not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to bring back our jobs and we’re going to keep our jobs. We’re not going to let companies leave.
Now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.
But when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries that devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to compete, that’s not going to happen. Not going to happen.
And if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be very, very serious consequences.
I have to tell you that I’ve competed all my life. Competitive person. All my life I’ve been in competitions. Different competitions whether it’s sports or business or now for 10 months politics.
And I have to tell you that I have met some of the most incredible competitors that I have ever competed against right here on the Republican Party.
You know, we started off with that 17 number. And just so you understand – Ted Cruz – I don’t know if he likes me or if he doesn’t like me. But he is one hell of a competitor. He is a tough, smart guy.
And he has got an amazing future. He’s got an amazing future. So I want to congratulate Ted.
And I know how tough it is. It’s tough. It’s tough.
I’ve had some moments where it’s not looking so good, and it’s not a great feeling. And so I understand how Ted feels and Heidi and their whole beautiful family.
And I just want to say that one tough competitor and I can say that for the others. I mean, Chris Christie who endorsed me. Incredible guy. Dr. Ben Carson who was right up there, one of the first. He just called me and said, “It’s a movement you’ve got going. We’ve got to do something because I’ll tell you what, it’s an incredible movement.” And Dr. Ben Carson endorsed me. And I want to tell you that is an incredible man and we want to keep Ben totally involved because we’re going to win. We’re going to win in November.
And we’re going to win big and it’s going to be America first.
You know, I made a speech the other day and I talked about how we’re the policemen for the world, how we protect other countries and they don’t respect us and they don’t take care of us and they don’t treat us right in many cases.
And that’s not going to happen.
Now, we’re going to keep things going and we’re going to keep things going very nicely but we owe – soon – $21 trillion. It’s $19 trillion now but with a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.
And we’re just not in a position that we’re in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking place.
So, we’re going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.
But likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what we’ve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to the United States, to its people, and to its taxpayers.
So that will change. And I will tell you, they’re going to end up liking us better than they do right. They’re going to respect us.
In this building right upstairs, I have the largest bank in the world from China. The relationship is fantastic.
We have great relationships with many foreign countries. But they have to respect us and they have to understand where we’re coming from.
And you know, it is a two-way street. And the two-way street means that we’re going down one side and they’re coming up the other. And we’re going to meet and we are going to have something that’s going to be really fabulous.
Now, if that can’t happen. If for some reason they want this system to continue the way it’s going now, which is not fair and not good, where we’re spending trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the Middle East.
And we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. We have to rebuild our bridges, our airports, our hospitals in this country.
We’ve become close to a third world country. You look at some of our airports; it’s third world. And then you go to other countries and you see places like you’ve never seen.
So I have to say that we are going to turn it around.
We’re going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. And we’re going to have to take out ISIS and we’re going to have to take them out fast. We can’t allow that cancer to continue. We cannot allow it to continue.
And you know, one group that’s been so incredible to me are the vets – the veterans. And they’ve been treated so badly. So badly. And we’re going to get that straightened out.
Now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and it’s happened now with two or three. But the Rasmussen poll came out yesterday and in that poll, I’m now leading Hillary Clinton. A lot of good things…
And that’s going to continue because they’re not going to be able to do it, folks.
They’re not going to be able to make great trade deals. We have such bad deals.
They’re not going to be able to do what we do with the military.
They’re not going to be able to do what we’re going to do on the border, including the wall.
We’re going to have unbelievably great relationships with the Hispanics. The Hispanics have been so incredible to me. They want jobs. Everybody want jobs. The African-Americans want jobs. You look at what’s going on. They want jobs.
And we’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re going to save our jobs and people are going to have great jobs again.
And this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. And we’re going to love each other. We’re going to cherish each other. We’re going to take care of each other. And we’re going to have great economic development.
And we’re not going to let other countries take it away from us because that’s what’s been happening for far too many years and we’re not going to do it anymore. We’re not going to do it anymore.
I want to thank and congratulate the Republican National Committee and Reince Priebus, who I just spoke to. He’s doing a tremendous job. It’s not an easy job when he had 17 egos and now I guess he’s down to one.
I don’t know. Is there a second? I mean, is there a second? I don’t know.
But I have ask you folks to explain the status of that.
But he’s done an amazing job and I think we’re going to see something really, really fantastic.
I also want to thank my staff, Paul, Cory, Pope. I mean, these people. What we’ve been doing has been incredible.
The work has been unreal.
And Jared [Kushner], married to my daughter Ivanka. I mean, honestly, you know Jared is a very successful real estate person but I actually think he likes politics more than he likes real estate. I’m excited. And he’s very good at politics.
So again folks this has been an amazing evening. I didn’t expect this. I didn’t expect it.
And what Ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do because we want to bring unity to the Republican Party. We have to bring unity. It’s so much easier if we have it.
And many, many people are calling that you wouldn’t even believe – the media, the press, they wouldn’t believe. People who have said the worst things about me – I’ve never had things said about me like this.
You know, with my businesses, I’ve always been very respected. People didn’t talk to me this way. But in politics, it’s easy.
The worst things and they’re calling now and they’re calling us all and they’re saying, “We’d love to get on the train” – the “Trump Train” they call it – “But we’d love to get on the team.”
And I actually spoke to one today who was vicious. I mean, this guy was unbelievable. And I said, “I’d love having you and I think it’s terrific. But after what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?” And he said, “Mr. Trump, don’t even think about it. Don’t worry about it. There’ll be no problem.” In other words, he’s a politician; there’s no problem. I would have had a hard time.
But we have a lot of people coming – lots of congressmen. I have to thank Jeff Sessions – Sen. Jeff Sessions – one of the most respected men or people in Congress.
And so many others. I mean, Sarah Palin has been from day one incredible.
Jerry Falwell, Jr. Liberty University, I mean he is something. He is really a special person. They’ve done an incredible job and everybody goes through Liberty. We all go through Liberty and somehow he liked what I was saying and perhaps he liked the way I said it. But he’s a special guy and he really has helped. And so many pastors and ministers.
And tonight, I see that I won with the evangelicals. The evangelical vote was for Trump.
And there’s no greater honor. No greater honor. We’re going to work together for many, many years. We’re going to make it so good. We’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. We’re going to be saying it…
And I won with women. I love winning with women. But I won with women. I won with men. We won with Hispanics. We won with African-Americans. We won with every – virtually every category. So it’s just been an amazing evening.
So again, I want to congratulate Ted Cruz. He is a tough, smart competitor. I want to thank my wife and my family. It’s an incredible family.
I want to thank my staff – both my staff and my thousands and thousands of people that work for the Trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness more importantly on this evening and for what we’re doing currently, my staff where we’re running for the presidency.
And remember this. Our theme is very simple. It’s make America great. We will make America great again. We will start winning again. You will be so proud of this country very, very soon.
Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you! Thank you very much!

…So I end up with a lawsuit, and it ends up in San Diego in federal court.
And it’s a disgrace the way the federal court is acting because it’s a simple lawsuit. Everybody that took the so-called course, it’s Trump University is in San Diego!
And the trial, they wanted to start while I’m running for president. The trial is going to take place sometime in November. There should be no trial.
This should’ve been dismissed on summary judgment easily. Everybody says it, but I have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump. A hater. He’s a hater.
His name is Gonzalo Curiel. And he is not doing the right thing.
And I figure, ‘What the hell. Why not talk about it for two minutes?’ Should I talk about it? Yes?
So we should’ve won. I’m being railroaded.
So here’s the story. Very simple story.
A number of years ago, a long time ago now, I open up a school, a little school, we called it Trump University, changed the name, we had probably I don’t know, a lot of people like 10,000 people.
You, did you like it? She said she was there, she liked it.
Here’s the story. So we open up and it really was successful from the beginning.
Then we get these class action lawyers, they immediately sue. My people did a good job for a couple of reasons.
One of the reasons was they had everybody that took the course sign like a report card. So we had, let’s say 10,000 people, almost that many sign the report card. And the report cards are unbelievable.
By the way, without that it’s their word versus these people or me.
But I’m getting railroaded by a legal system that frankly they should be ashamed.
Because this is a case, that I’ll be here in November. Hey! If I win as president, it’s a civil case, I could’ve settled this case numerous times, but I don’t want to settle cases when we’re right. I don’t believe in it. And when you start settling cases, you know what happens? Everybody sues you because you get known as a settler. One thing about me, I am not known as a settler.
And people understand that this whole thing, with this whole deal, with the lawyers, class-action lawyers, they’re the worst. It’s a scam.
So here’s what happens; we’re in front of a very hostile judge. The judge was appointed by Barack Obama, federal judge. Frankly he should recuse himself. Because he’s given us ruling after ruling after – negative, negative, negative. I have a top lawyer who said he’s never seen anything like this before.
So what happens is, we get sued. We have a magistrate named William Gallo who truly hates us, and this is what.
Now, the good news is, it’s a jury trial. But we can’t even get a full jury. We’re entitled to a jury, we want a jury of 12 people, and you’re gonna watch.
First of all, it should be dismissed before the trial, but if we have a trial, we’ll go all the way. Watch how we win it because I’ve been treated unfairly.
Very much like with the veterans, where I raise all that money but on Tuesday I’m announcing all of the groups that we’ve given almost $6 million to. You know you turn things around.
So here’s the story. We have a law-firm named Robbins Geller, where basically, Robbins Geller is a spinoff of two law firms – [inaudible]… Two of those partners went to jail for an extended period of time for doing very bad things legally. This same group is the lawyers against.

So what happens is, the judge who happens to be, we believe, Mexican, which is great, I think that’s fine. You know what? I think the Mexicans are going to end up loving Donald Trump when I give all these jobs, okay? I think they’re going to end up. I think they’re going to love. I think they’re going to love me.
So here’s what happens. We get sued by a woman and she turns out to be a disaster for them. Her name is Tarla Makaeff. She rated on the report card it’s one to five, five being excellent, the highest mark. She gave me a five across the board. All fives. She then did a video saying it was fantastic – the most glowing video you’ve ever seen.
She then sued me because she wanted her money back. She was such a disaster that this judge, it was her against us. She was such a disaster that this judge allowed her to get out of the case.
But we want her to be in the case. And the lawyer said, “Your Honor! We want her to be in the case.” He said “She’s out of the case.”
So now we have others. So we said, “Dismiss the case! She’s out of the case.” “No, we won’t dismiss the case.”
So we have 10,000 surveys from former students giving Trump University rave reviews. It’s called and it’s on the website, www.98percentapproval.com. Okay?
So we have Marla, so we have Makaeff giving us these great numbers.
Then we have another one. Bob Guillo. They used him, I think it was Bush – Jeb Bush, low energy. We have these guys making commercials. Now look, in all fairness, it hasn’t hurt me much because, you know, they use this thing, every once in a while you have one. And we’re going to win.
But if I don’t win, and even if I do win, we want to, my kids will open it up again, because it was a terrific school. It was great. It was good.
So we have a guy named Bob Guillo, he appeared in a TV attack ad. Can you believe it? They used him on ads against me.
I had 66,000 negative ads. Over $100 million in Florida alone during the big primary, which I won in a landslide. We had 15,000 negative ads and I won. I almost wonder what do ads mean if you want to know the truth.
So you have this guy, Bob Guillo. He appeared in TV attack ads even though he rated the programs a five, meaning excellent, the top mark, across the board. His primary complaint was he would’ve liked to have more comfortable chairs. Okay? Unbelievable.
Then we have a guy named Art Cohen and he was late to file. So he signed a survey in which he rated the program, either a four or a five.
I will tell you this, how smart was it to ask everybody that took the course to sign a report, card?
Now you know what the lawyers are saying? The lawyers are saying “Oh, but they were forced. 10,000 people were forced. They were forced and you have pictures.”
We actually have video tapes of people, they weren’t forced. A professor said, “Would you sign how you like it?” So that’s it.
So he signed all fives and fours out of a possible, the highest marks, and indicated that his only complaint was a lack of nice lunch sandwiches. Okay? Think of it.
So he was late, so they went to the judge, and the judge said “He was late.” Why don’t you file under RICO? Organized crime?”
Now we’ve all been sued in business for RICO. Even Papa John probably. We ever said everybody. RICO’s like – but they ended it pretty much.

So I get sued. Here’s a guy gives me all good marks. He’s late so they’re starting a new lawsuit. Now here’s the thing; this law firm – because this is like a life study – this law firm gave a lot of money to the Attorney General of New York, who’s a total lightweight. His name is Attorney General Eric Schneiderman.
Schneiderman accepts their money, goes to meet with President Obama in Syracuse, when Obama was in Syracuse, and then the next day or two, files a lawsuit against me because they, in my opinion, they gave him a contribution, then goes to see Obama. Just wanting to see how the system works folk. It’s a bad system. Let me tell you.
So Obama meets with this dopey Eric Schniederman, who hates our governor. And he wants to run for governor but I don’t think it’s going to happen. They go up to Syracuse, meets with Obama and he files a lawsuit.
So, bottom line is this. People said you can settle. In fact a lot of people said, “Oh before you run, you should settle.” I said “I don’t care, the people understand it and they use it.”
So when I have 10,000 people and when we have mostly unbelievable reviews, how do you settle?
And in fact when the case started originally, I said “How can I settle when I have a review like this. Every review is good!” Now I should’ve settled but I’m glad I didn’t.
So I’ll be seeing you in November either as President.
And I will say this, I have all these great reviews but I will say this, I think Judge Curiel should be ashamed of himself. I think it’s a disgrace that he’s doing this. And I look forward to going before a jury, not this judge, a jury, and we will win that trial. We will win that trial, check it out. Check it out, folks.
You know, I tell this to people, Nov. 28th I think it’s scheduled. It shouldn’t be a trial. It should be a summary judgment dismissal.
By the way, friends of mine that are great lawyers, in fact, one of them represents you, said “How the hell do you get sued under RICO for a guy that took a course, loved the course, said great things about the course, and then you get sued under RICO?”
It is a disgrace.
Now, I’m talking about Bernie Sanders has a rigged system; it is rigged. I’m talking about I had a rigged system except we won by so much.
I will tell you, this court system, the judges in this court system, federal court, they ought to look into Judge Curiel, because what Judge Curiel is doing is a total disgrace. Okay?
But we’ll come back in November. Wouldn’t that be wild if I’m president and I come back to do a civil case? Where everybody likes him. Okay, this is called life, folks.

Donald Trump:
Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This has been a great period of time. It’s been really amazing.
We’ve gotten the nomination. We’re going to have an incredible period in Cleveland. We look forward to it.
We’ve started working already on the convention.
And LeBron, good luck in the series because we’re going to have the series, which of course the longer it goes the less time we have but that’s okay. And it’s going to be very interesting to see what happens.
But as you know, they’re playing the basketball championships partially in that arena so I think it will be very exciting. It’ll add to the excitement in Cleveland and that’s good. That’s what we want because it’s going to be an exciting period of time.
We have – we’ve done some awfully good work. I was just informed…that we’ve got more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican primaries and we still have I guess six or seven locations to go, states to go.
And in the history, think of it, in the history of this great party, we’ve gotten substantially more votes than anybody else by millions – by many millions more – than anybody who’s ever run.
So that’s a great. You know, when you think Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan and everybody, we have the most votes by far. So that’s something to me that’s very exciting.
And overall, it’s just been a very exciting process. I think we’re going to do very well.
We have no idea what’s going to happen on the Democrat’s side but they’re certainly having difficulty. I don’t like to see people having difficulty. But if anybody has to have it, let it be them.
And I think it’s going to be very interesting.
I’m very proud to say that we’ve gotten the most votes and also if you look at the overall primary the amount of votes cast, that’s also a record. So we’ve broken a lot of records in terms of the voters.
Our polling has come out and the polls are doing very well as you know. We’re pretty much even and in some cases ahead of Hillary. And I think we’re going to have a very, very successful number of months. And I think it will all culminate in November and we’re going to make America great. Okay?
So that’s the way it is…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m glad you asked the question because I have to tell you I have raised a tremendous amount of money for the vets – almost $6 million. And more money is going to come in I believe over the next little while too.
But I’ve raised almost $6 million. All of the money has been paid out and I’m going to give it to you in just a second.
In fact, I brought a list just in case that question was asked.
But the money has been paid out.
I have been thanked by so many veterans’ groups throughout the United States.
One gentleman called me up recently crying that out of a blue he got a check for $100,000. I have been thanked by so many groups – great veterans’ groups.
And by the way, outside you have a few people picketing. They’re sent there by Hillary Clinton and they’re picketing that the money wasn’t sent. The money has all been sent.
I wanted to keep it private. If we could, I wanted to keep it private because I don’t think it’s anybody’s business if I want to send money to the vets.
But I have to say this. I raised close to $6 million. It’ll probably be over that amount when it’s all said and done. But as of this moment, it’s $5.6 million.
When this started, it started with a speech in Iowa when I said let’s raise some money for the vets and it went up from $1 million to $2 million to $3 million. And it now ends up to be almost $6 million and again I think we can even do better than that.

Donald Trump:
But I will say that the press should be ashamed of themselves.
And behalf of the vets, the press should be ashamed of themselves. They are calling me. They are furious because I sent people checks of a lot of money.
We’re going to give you the names right now, which is what you want.
And instead of being like “Thank you very much, Mr. Trump” or “Trump did a good job”, everyone said, “Who got it? Who got it? Who got it?” And you make me look very bad.
I have never received such bad publicity for doing such a good job.
So I will give the names because that’s what you want. Right?
Okay. Are you ready?
I brought them here. It takes – because you have to vet each company. You know, much of this money was paid out fairly early.
But you have to vet all of these different groups because these are many different groups. You have to go through a process. When you send checks for hundreds of thousands of dollars to people and to companies and to groups that you’ve never heard of – charitable organizations. You have to vet it. You send people out. You do a lot of work.
Now, most of the money went out quite a while ago. Some of it went out more recently. But all of this has gone out and I’ll give you the names.
Are you ready? Do you have your pad?
And again, I really think the press – look, the media, you know my opinion of the media. It’s very low. I think the media is frankly made up of people that, in many cases, not in all cases, are not good people. But I think this is an example.
And I just on behalf of all of the folks that have worked hard on this and all of the people that have made contributions, including myself; I gave $1 million, but I just want to tell you that there are so many people that are so thankful for what we did.
One other thing that’s important to know. Zero dollars have been taken out for administration.
You know, when you go to a lot of these different groups, in this case, zero dollars have been taken out for administration. So a lot of these companies that make a lot of money doing the administration stuff. So no money – it costs zero dollars to accumulate all of this money. Okay?
So you have 22 Kill and that’s $200,000.
And you can call these people. That was another thing. A lot of the money when it was sent out, different people would call. I could tell you, I’m not going to mention anybody specifically, but there were a couple of people that were really disgusting. They’d call and these vet groups they don’t get a lot of calls from the press. And maybe some of them would keep quiet or they didn’t know or they didn’t want to talk to the press or they didn’t feel comfortable.
So if they didn’t say they got the money, which they all did, 100% got the money. All certified checks. If anyone wants to see the certified checks.
But rather than say why don’t you – could I see a certified check? They said “Well, they didn’t say they got the money.” They all got the money.
But they’re not people that always talk to the press. Many of them do talk to the press. Many of them have – I guess you found $2 million or $2.5 million where they talked.
Well, the number is $5.6 million and it’s going to possibly go above that because I believe some other people are coming in.
Ready?
22Kill got $200,000.
Now, these are checks that have been delivered, that have been cashed, that are now being used to help the vets.
Achilles International – great organization – $200,000. Much of this money was paid a long time ago.
American Hero Adventures – $100,000.
Americans for Equal Living – $100,000.
America’s Vetdogs – The Veterans’ K-9 Corps Inc. – $75,000.
AMVETS – $75,000.
…

Just so you understand. When I didn’t do the Fox debate…because I didn’t think they treated me right but actually they’ve been extremely fair over the last three or four months, I have to say that about Fox. But when I didn’t do that one event, the debate, I gave a speech. I didn’t have to do this with the money for the vets but I decided to because I thought it would be a good idea.
And I had some very generous people – Carl Icahn gave $500,000. Phil Ruffin gave $1 million…Ike Perlmutter gave $1 million. We raised a lot of money. And I didn’t have to do that. It would have been easier just to give the speech.
And the problem with the press what they do is they convince people like me not to do it, not to give money to different things because it’s a lot easier actually that way.
Armed Services YMCA of the United States – $75,000.
Bob Woodruff Family Foundation Inc. – they do a good job – $75,000.
Central Iowa Shelter and Services – these are all vet-related – $100,000.
Connected Warriors Inc. – $75,000.
Disabled American Veterans Charitable Service Trust – $115,000.
Fisher House Foundation – great people – $115,000.
Folds of Honor Foundation – $200,000.
Foundation for American Veterans – $75,000.
Freedom Alliance – $75,000.
Green Beret Foundation – $350,000.
Hire Heroes USA – $75,000.
Homes for Our Troops – $50,000.
And just so you understand, we’ve got a long way to go. This money was raised during a little speech that I made rather than doing a debate. The one debate I missed. It was the lowest rated debate by the way but I won’t say that.
Honoring America’s Warriors – $100,000.
Hope for the Warriors – $65,000.
Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund – $175,000.
K9s for Warriors – $50,000.
Liberty House – $100,000.
Marine Corps – Law Enforcement Foundation – $1,100,000. I gave $1 million to them. A great group.
Navy Seal Foundation – $465,000.
Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society – $75,000.
New England Wounded Veterans Inc. – $75,000.
Operation Homefront – $65,000.
Partners for Patriots – $100,000.
Project for Patriots – and we’re still vetting them by the way. The check is ready to go. But they don’t have all of their appropriate – in fact, we have down here will be released to them upon the receipt of the IRS determination letter. It’s the only one, which we hear they’re fantastic but they have to give us that final document.
This is what I mean by vetting. You have to have all the documents. Otherwise you can’t give them the money.
Project for Patriots – $100,000.
Puppy Jake Foundation – $100,000.
Racing for Heroes Inc. – $200,000

Support for Siouxland Soldiers – $100,000.
Task Force Dagger Foundation – $50,000.
The Mission Continues – $75,000.
The National Military Family Association Inc. – $75,000.
Veterans Airlift Command – $100,000.
Veterans Count – $25,000.
Veterans-In-Command Inc. $150,000.
Vietnam Veterans Workshop Inc. – $75,000.
Warriors for Freedom Foundation – $50,000.
And I believe we’re going to have some more coming in. Some friends of mine, some more coming in. And that adds up to $5,600,000 total and we’re going to have some more coming in.
Now, every one of those checks have been passed other than the one check which is being held subject to they’re getting a final approval from the government. But every one of those has been passed.
This is my check for $1 million.
We have many letters from the different groups thanking us very much for the money and they didn’t ask – I didn’t ask people to be here today. I could have asked every one of the group unlike Hillary who asks people to stand outside and say “Donald Trump didn’t give the money.”
Nobody gave this kind of money.
So I gave $5,600,000. More is coming in. Probably tops the $6 million number.
I never thought we were going to raise $1 million when we started. And we end up doing almost $6 million.
I have to tell you the press is so dishonest and so unfair.
A lot of the people behind me and some of the people over here helped in vetting the various requests for money. And I just want to thank all of those people.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I wasn’t too involved in picking the organizations other than to the Marine Law Enforcement. They are fabulous people. They honored me last year at the Waldorf Astoria. I knew them.
I was going to give it to three companies or three groups and we couldn’t vet them quickly. And so I gave it to the Marine.
And if you look at number, the Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation is a fabulous group and I didn’t have to go through a big vetting process with them. Because I was going to split the $1 million check up amongst…and in the end I just didn’t want to go through the process of having to vet all those different groups.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Because I wanted to make this out of the goodness of my heart. I didn’t want to do this where the press is all involved and all of a sudden everybody is going “Where did it go? Who did it go to?” Then we said who it went to, then we said how much was it.
…Look, when this started…I said if we could raise $1 million that would be good. And we ended up raising almost $6 million. And I’m going to have more coming in over a period of time.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m totally accountable but I didn’t want to have credit for it.
Actually though what I got was worse than credit because they were questioning me. And this is money. And by the way, most of that money went out very early just so you understand. But a lot of these groups – getting vetted by, you know, when you pay the money out, they need government documentation. They need a lot of different things.

Donald Trump:
Plus, we want to find out who’s in the good group.
I had people – teams of people – reviewing statistics, reviewing numbers and also talking to people in the military to find out whether or not the group was deserving of the money.
We have given to groups that are unbelievable groups. And honestly, I wish you could hear the phone calls and see the letters. They are so happy. And I’m happy to do it. I didn’t want the credit for it but it was very unfair that the press treated us so badly.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, generally speaking, that’s 100% true.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I like scrutiny. But you know what? When I raise money – excuse me, excuse me, I’ve watched you on television. You’re a real beauty. When I raise money for the veterans and it’s a massive amount of money – find out how much Hillary Clinton has given to the veterans – nothing.
And then I see a few guys standing out there. They don’t even know what they’re there for. They have no idea. They’re there because Hillary Clinton’s campaign sent them.
And actually I think it was you or one of you that found out that they actually were with Hillary Clinton’s campaign, which was interesting but I wasn’t surprised.
I don’t want the credit for it but I shouldn’t be lambasted.
And remember this: So out of the almost $6 million that was raised not one penny did I take for administration cost. That’s unheard of.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
How else am I going to raise the money? How else am I going to raise the money?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I would have given – just so you understand. Until I was criticized – so I’m the only one in the world that could raise almost $6 million for the veterans, have uniform applause by the veterans’ groups, and end up being criticized by the press.
Yes, I made a speech and during the speech I said, “Let’s raise a little money for the vets.” It turned out to be a lot of money, not a little money. I thought if we could get to $1 million, it would be great, which it would have been.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
That’s right. I do raise millions.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I don’t think so.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I raised almost $6 million. Some of it didn’t come through. But more money is coming through than didn’t come through. The number probably is going to be – when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t mind it coming from the opposition…What I do mind is when I raise all of these millions and when we started out nobody ever thought it was going to be over $5 million or close to $6 [million].
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
So, look, here’s the story. Here’s the story. I think and I’ve been dealing with the press a long time. I think the political press is among the most dishonest people I’ve ever met, I have to tell you that. Okay?
…But I think the political press…I think the political press – I see the stories and I see the way they’re attached.
For instance, I went down this weekend to do Rolling Thunder. I was invited. I didn’t have anything to do with it. We had a tremendous gathering of people – thousands – I don’t know how many thousands – but many thousands of people. And I joked “Oh, I thought we were going to go from the Jefferson Memorial to the – “ I was joking. They said “Donald Trump was disappointed”. Everybody knew I was being sarcastic and joking. They said some of them. Said Donald Trump was very disappointed that it didn’t go from Jefferson to Lincoln. You know, millions of people.
I was joking. I said “Oh, I’m used to watching it. We had – “ I was joking. So they put it down as serious. They know I was joking.
I’ll give you another example. We had a certain – same event – it was roped off where you could only get so many people there and there were a lot of people. I don’t know – 10,000, 15,000, maybe 25,000. I don’t know there was a lot of people. Plus there were people breaking the seams all the way along.
Eugene Washington, a man I like actually, wrote an article said there were 5,000 people there. There were many times that. And you weren’t allowed to have any more people.
And all of these people were with their motorcycles in parking lots all the way. They were waving to me as I’m going.

Donald Trump:
But wait a minute. The point is law enforcement – these people didn’t allow you to have any more people.
…I had a tremendous crowd but it was the biggest crowd you could have had. It was all cordoned off. You weren’t allowed to have any more. You weren’t allowed to have any more people than that.
So instead of saying Trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd, they said “Trump was disappointed” because I didn’t have millions of people going from Jefferson to Washington. I mean, give me a break.
…Honestly, it’s dishonest reporting.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, the veterans believe me. Let me tell you, the veterans why they believe. And I have group that I gave…[invites a veteran to speak]
…I could have asked all these groups – he just showed up. I just saw him. But I could have asked all these groups to come here and they could have made – I didn’t want to do that.
I’m not looking for credit. But what I don’t want is when I raise millions of dollars have people say like this sleazy guy over here from ABC – he’s a sleaze in my book. You’re a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the facts well.
Veteran:
Thank you, Mr. Trump.
First of all for the record, I’m a state representative from New Hampshire, 10 years on the veterans affairs committee, 22 years in the Marine Corps, retired First Sergeant.
What I want to clarify here first of all, I would never ever in a million years put my name on a candidate that did not from his heart look me in the eye and tell me he’s concerned about veterans. That’s Donald Trump. I met him over a year ago.
I’ve been involved in many fundraisers. There are many scammers out there. He did the right thing by vetting these groups there.
If you look at some of the groups, they’re given 20 cents, 40 cents on the dollar and they’re spending the rest for you know their nice lavish trips. He gave 100%.
The liberal media is the only ones that have been calling the foundation. All right? I’m a former chairman. I’ve been dealing with this stuff for years as a veterans activist.
Stop using veterans as a political pawns. You’ve got a guy outside…go do a Google search on his Facebook. He’s out there. His pictures with Clinton.
They are using veterans as political pawns. It must stop.
Donald Trump is doing this with a heart. You’re all focused on the way he’s raising money and you’re not looking at the 22 veterans that are killing each other everyday. You’re not concerned about the thousands of veterans that are on waitlists.
Look at his plans on his Trump website. He talks about medical cards. He talks about fixing the VA. He talks about competition.
I think the liberal media and I’ve been dealing with you a long time. You need to get your head out of your butt. Focus on the real issues.
Thank you.

Donald Trump:
What I did – I didn’t ask Al. I’ve gotten to know Al a little bit primarily through New Hampshire where we had great victories. But he showed up this morning because he was upset.
And many of the other groups were upset. They received $100,000 in the mail. They didn’t even know what it was for. It was from me. Other groups received $200,000, $250,000. They didn’t know what it was for.
And again, upstairs I have received phones calls with people crying. I have received letters – heartfelt letters.
…The bad part about the dishonesty of the media is that people like me will be inclined not to do it anymore. Because why should you raise $5.6 million and I think I’ll go over $6 million pretty easily. Nobody said that we started this out as a small little project where it was less than $1 million because it kept just mushrooming and building and building. But nobody talks about that.
So we raised $5.6 million. We have so many happy groups. So many happy veterans.
And then I see these Hillary Clinton people outside. Now, of course, they don’t know the extent. They probably figured based on reading the press that Trump didn’t make, you know, didn’t raise this kind of money.
But we raised a lot and I’ll be raising more and we’ll be sending it to other people as we get along.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
It’s a complicated process.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, it doesn’t…You know, the government sort of approves different groups for a lot of reasons. So it really does – and more than anything else, it’s also speaking to other veterans. We have a circle of veterans. I don’t want to send a $250,000 check to a group that doesn’t do good work. So it’s called vetting. We vet the vets. But it’s called vetting.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think it’s bothersome because I love the vets and I’ve worked hard for the vets. And as you can see, I’ve given a lot of money and raised a lot of money for the vets.
And I think when the press portrays it differently, the press is being very dishonest. So I don’t like that. I don’t like dishonesty.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. Jeff Sessions is one of the most highly respected people in the United States Senate.
Jeff Sessions is a person that I believe that Ted Cruz has the most respect for and I think Ted thought that he would get an endorsement.
You know, Jeff Sessions has never endorsed a presidential candidate before as many years as he’s been in the Senate.
So you know, Jeff Sessions is certainly somebody that I would consider. Absolutely. He’s a fantastic person.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think it was a very tough call. It was amazing because there were moments with the gorilla the way he held that child that almost like a mother holding a baby – looks so beautiful and calm. And there were moments where it looked pretty dangerous. I don’t think they had a choice. I mean, probably they didn’t have a choice.
You have a child, a young child, at stake. You know, it’s too bad there wasn’t another way.
I thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful almost 500 pound gorilla and the way he dealt with that little boy. But it just takes one second. It’s one second – it’s not like it takes place over – well, he’s going to do it 30 seconds from now. It just takes one little flick of his finger. And I will tell you they probably had no choice.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m entirely in favor of fixing the VA health care. VA is one of the great catastrophes in this country what’s going on.
You look at what’s happening in Phoenix and different places throughout the country where they’re catching people stealing and they don’t even fire them, where people are waiting five days, six days, seven days on line. They’re dying while they wait on line.
And I am in favor of if they can’t get to a doctor within a reasonable period of time, they’re going to see a doctor and the country’s going to pay for it. They’re going to go to a private doctor or a public hospital and a public doctor but some place that can take them immediately. We’re losing thousands of people waiting on line.
And the Veterans Administration is run by Obama just as incompetently as he’s running our country.
You look at the TSA, you look at what’s going on at the airports and you look at that. Okay? Just take a look at that. That’s like the Veterans Administration.
Nothing in our country works anymore. It’s a mess.
And maybe that’s why I’m doing so well in the polls.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, it doesn’t have to be privatization. No, it doesn’t have to be privatization. What it has to be is when somebody’s on line and they say it’s going to be a seven day wait, that person is going to walk over to across the street to a private doctor, be taken care of. We’re going to pay the bill.
And by the way, that’s going to be a lot less expensive. And we’ll check it out and be careful. But that’s going to be a lot less expensive than what’s going on.
These people are living in hell.
And Hillary Clinton said the Veterans Administration is working just fine. And the head of it, [Bob] McDonald said last week that waiting in line is not bad – look at Disney World. Okay? These are the kind of people we have running things. It’s ridiculous.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…That’s their choice. You have a party called the Democrats and they’re going to have to make that choice. I think it’s probably going to be her because it’s rigged.
And I think if you people will say I’m the one that came up with the term “rigged”. I used it for myself, except that I won by such big margins that the whole system is rigged on both sides. With the Republicans it’s less obvious. With Democrats with the whole super delegate thing, it’s ridiculous.
So I think that they’re going to have to make that determination.
If you’re asking me who I prefer running against?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I think what she did was very bad and I think a lot of people have done a lot less than her and their lives have been destroyed.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
The judge has been very unfair. Has not done a good job. He’s been a very bad judge. Has been very unfair. And I will win the Trump University case. I already am as far as I’m concerned. But I will win the Trump University case.
Because I don’t care…
I have a judge who’s very, very unfair.
Well, you’ll see it in court documents. But I have a judge who’s very, very unfair. He knows he’s unfair. And I’ll win the Trump University case. I can settle that case. I could have settled it. I just choose not to.
In fact, when I ran this, they said why didn’t you settle up that case? I don’t want to settle the case.
Because you know what? Because I’m a man of principle. And most of the people that took those courses have letters saying they thought it was great essentially. It was good. It was great.
And you know what? When they’re on the stand and you say “How come you signed the letter saying that Trump University was so good? How come you signed the letter?”
The woman that was the original plaintiff in the case – they went to the court and the judge allowed her to get out of the case. The case should have been dropped. The whole case should have been dropped.
They wanted her dismissed from the case. You know why? Because she was deposed, she was such a bad witness that we’d win the case easily. She signed a letter and she’s on film. She’s on tape like these cameras saying unbelievably good things about Trump University. So they didn’t want her anymore because she’s a disaster for them.
So they went to the judge and they said “Your honor, we’d like to have her not be a participant, not be a plaintiff in the case.” And he said, “Oh, that’s okay.” She’s the one that started the case.
Now, they don’t even want her to testify. They don’t want her to testify because she’s a disaster. She has all sorts of beautiful statements about it. And importantly, she’s on tape saying how great it is. They don’t want her. I wouldn’t want her either.
Now, I could have settled that case. I could settle that case. I can settle that case. I don’t want to. I’ll go through the process.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Because we’re down the line. Because we’re down the line and the fact that you can’t win as independent. For the most part, you can’t even get on Texas and various other states now. It’s too late. But Texas is out.
…Here’s what happens. What happens is you will not have – and very importantly – you will not have Supreme Court justices. You’re going to lose. You could have as many as four or five. That’s over.
Now, [Bill] Kristol’s the one that’s – but he’s the last one. Don’t forget, he said “Trump will never run.” The guy’s not a smart person. He said, “Donald Trump would never run.” Remember?
You remember? I actually blame you. Why do you put this guy on television? I see him on the different shows. He’s got no credibility. Said I won’t run. If I run, I won’t do well. If I do well, this and that. He looks like such a fool.
I saw him on one show. He’s practically crying because he can’t justify.
Now he comes out with a tweet over the weekend – over Memorial Day weekend – it sounds like he’s going to put somebody up. Even I thought it. I thought, “Oh, they’re going to find indie.”
Now he comes out with something saying he was almost – almost – kidding. Okay?
Let me tell you, these people are losers. He’s trying to make you – he’s trying to drive you guys a little bit nuts.
If they do an indie, assuming it’s decent, which I don’t think anybody with a reputation would do it because they’d look like fools. But what you’re going to do is you lose the election for the Republicans and therefore you lose the Supreme Court, therefore you will have a group of people put on the Supreme Court where this country will never ever recover. It will never, ever be the same.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I didn’t say that. I said Bill Kristol is a loser and I’ll tell you why…He has called every single move. Take a look – on me, he’s going to lose this state – I won in a landslide…I didn’t say everybody. Many. I didn’t say everybody.
Wait, wait, wait. Bill Kristol is a loser. His magazine is failing, as you know. It’s going to be down – I don’t think it even survives. He’s getting some free publicity.
But Bill Kristol – I’ve been watching this for two years. “Trump isn’t going to run.” Then I go into a race, we go into New Hampshire. “Oh, he’s not going to win New Hampshire.” I win in a landslide. Every place I went I was not going to win. But I win in a landslide. Do you think maybe he doesn’t like me?

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
It’s wrong. It’s wrong. I didn’t get 30%.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
My last score was 78%. I didn’t get 30%.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know. No, no, no.
Here’s the way I look at it.
When I have somebody that’s not on my side, when you know – by the way, I’ve gotten great applause from the press in terms of as an achievement because the Republican Party is really well unified.
We have come up. People that you would have never thought possible are now saying, “I support Trump.” So remember that. We don’t talk about that too much.
But actually last week, the big story was how fast the Republican Party is healing because it is a healing process. It was a rough – that was a rough campaign…
I can this. The real is how fast we’re getting together.
Now, if I have a Republican who’s not on my side, I’m not going to be – why should I be particularly nice to that person? I’m not going to go after it like I would Hillary or Crazy Bernie. But you know what? Why should I be nice to that person if I have a person that’s not going to support me? I have no obligation.
Politically, I may be right. I may be wrong. But that’s who I am. I’m a very honest person…
If somebody is going to say a little bit negative or a lot negative about me and if they happen to be Republican, I may choose to hit them back. Not always. But I may choose to hit them back.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney lost an election he should have won.
And if you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal about Mitt Romney, he looks like a fool.
Look, I’m not a fan of Mitt Romney. Just so you understand. I raised a lot of money for Mitt Romney. I made robocalls for Mitt Romney. I made speeches for him. He let us down.
If you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal this weekend, Mitt Romney looks like a fool.
Now, what would I say good about Mitt Romney?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
She was not nice and I was fine, just a little bit of a jab. But she wasn’t nice. And you think I’m going to change? I’m not changing, including with her.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Bob Dole is a fan of mine. Bob Dole endorsed me. So don’t tell me about Bob Dole.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, look, Gary Johnson, he got 1% of the vote last time. I watched that whole situation. It was pretty disgraceful. I think it’s a total fringe deal. I think he’s a fringe candidate if you want to know the truth. I look at him and I watch him and I watch his motions and I watch what he says. I think that he is a fringe candidate…when you do a little research on that I think it’s not going to be a factor. Okay?
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, not all of you. Just many of you.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. Let me tell you something. I’m a person – yeah, it’s going to be like this…If the press writes false stories like they did with this – half of you were amazed that I raised all of this money. If the press writes false stories like they did where I wanted to keep a low profile. I didn’t want the credit for raising all this money for the vets. I wasn’t looking for the credit.
And by the way, more money is coming in. I wasn’t looking for the credit.
But I had no choice but to do this because the press was saying I didn’t raise any money for them.
Not only did I raise it, much of it was given a long time ago. And there is a vetting process and I think you understand that.
But when I raise almost $6 million and probably in the end will raise more than six because more is going to come in and is coming in. But when I raise $5.6 million as of today, more is coming in. And this is going to phenomenal groups.
And I have many of these people vetting the people getting the money and working hard. And then we have to read probably libelous stories or certainly close in the newspapers and the people know the stories are false, I’m going to continue to attack the press.
Look, I find the press to be extremely dishonest. I find the political press to be unbelievably dishonest. I will say that.
Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Wow! Thank you very much.
Hello.
I’d like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey, and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in. Very big numbers.
I’m truly honored by your support.
Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is. We’re only getting started and it’s going to be beautiful. Remember that.
Tonight, we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history. No matter who it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes.
This is a great feeling. That’s a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible.
You’ve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall.
We’re going to do it. We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever let you down. Too much work, too many people, blood, sweat, and tears. I’m never going to let you down.
I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and that’s what it is – it’s a movement.
Now, recent polls have shown that I’m beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that she’s made and she has made tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially.
To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn your support and I will work very hard to earn that support.
To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms.

And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against – and he’s right on that – will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible. And that’s what I do.
We are going to have fantastic trade deals. We’re going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now, I know some people say I’m too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however. And I’ve shown that. I’ve shown that for a long time.
I’ve built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved – always.
My goal is always again to bring people together. But I’m forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.
I’ve fought for my family. I’ve fought for my business. I’ve fought for my employees. And now I’m going to fight for you – the American people – like nobody has ever fought before.
And I’m not a politician fighting. I’m me. You’re going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: I’m going to be your champion. I’m going to be America’s champion.
Because, you see, this election isn’t about Republican or Democrat. It’s about who runs this country – the special interests or the people – and I mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promised change. Obama promised change and it didn’t work out too well. And every year, they failed to deliver.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s totally rigged in order to keep them in power? That’s what they’re doing, folks.
Why would politicians want to change a system that’s made them and their friends very, very wealthy?
I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support – the only way you could have done it – landslides all over the country with every demographic, on track to win 37 primary/caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.

After years of disappointment, there’s one thing we all have learned – we can’t fix the rigged system by relying on very – and I mean this so, so strongly – on the very people who rigged it. And they rigged it and do not ever think anything differently.
We can’t solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves.
They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars.
Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. Something that how she’s getting away with this folks nobody understands. Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk, and a president in a corrupt system is totally protecting her. Not right.
I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week, and we’re going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think you’re going to find it very informative and very, very interesting.
I wonder if the press would want to attend. Who knows?
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into a private hedge fund. The Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return.
It’s a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didn’t need to do this. It’s not easy. Believe me. I didn’t need to do it. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country, which has been so good to me and to my family.

I’ve traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in people’s lives.
I’ve visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana, and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs – they literally these jobs have virtually disappeared. An embarrassment to our country and it’s horrible.
I’ve embraced the victims of illegal immigration – moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldn’t have been in the country. Remember it, folks. Remember it.
I’ve visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools.
I’ve seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and I’ve compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours. It’s really not to be believed. Hard to imagine what’s happened to our country.
America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly auctioned off to the highest bidder.
We’re broke. We’re broke. We owe $19 trillion. Going quickly to $21 trillion.
Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. People are scared.
The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd. What a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country. We love our country.
But we can turn this all around. We’re going to do it by putting America first.
That commitment is the foundation for change that’s been missing and it’s been missing for a long time.

It’s important to understand what America First means.
It means on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation.
This is the opposite of Hillary’s foreign policy, which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migration, which is wrecking havoc all over the world and while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East. And they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that way.
Better hope I’m president.
On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition – what’s happening here is absolutely a disgrace.
No PPP [sic]. You’re right about that. So and you mean no PP.
We are going – and remember this – we are only going to have great trade deals. Okay? We are only going to have that.
We’re not going to approve as somebody just said the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is a disaster – a disaster – for our country. Almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places and in particular Mexico.
If it’s not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. It’s got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and we’re suffering big league and it’s getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up America’s great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our wonderful and hardworking miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for middle class Americans and businesses. Likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level, we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages, and security of American workers. Whether first or tenth generation, no matter who you are, we’re going to protect your job because let me tell you, our jobs are being stripped from our country like we’re babies.

The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges. It’s got to be that way.
Now, the people in charge say things can’t change. I’m here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
We’re going to put America back to work. We’re going to make our own products. We’re going to put America back to work.
We’re going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad, going to take care of our African-American people that have been mistreated for so long.
We’re going to make you and your families safe, secure, and prosperous. Prosperous again.
Together, we will put the American people first again. First again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We will make our country strong again.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again! Remember. Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you very much everybody!

Today I’d like to share my thoughts about the stakes in this upcoming and important election.
People have asked me why I’m running for president. I’ve built an amazing business that I love and I get to work side by side with my children every single day.
We come to work together and turn visions into reality. We think big and then we make it happen. We absolutely make it happen.
I love what I do and I am grateful beyond words to the nation that has allowed me to do it.
So when people ask me why I am running, I very quickly answer I’m running to give back to this country which has been so very good to me.
When I see the crumbling roads and bridges or the dilapidated airports or the factories moving overseas to Mexico or to other countries for that matter, I know these problems can all be fixed but not by Hillary Clinton. Only by me.
The fact is we can come back bigger and better and stronger than ever before. Jobs, jobs, jobs.
Everywhere I look, I see the possibilities of what our country could be. But we can’t solve any of these problems by relying on the politicians who created the problems themselves. We’ll never be able to fix a rigged system by counting on the same people who have rigged it in the first place.

The insiders wrote the rules of the game to keep themselves in power and in the money.
That’s why we’re asking Bernie Sanders’s voters to join our movement so together we can fix the system for all Americans. So important.
This includes fixing all of our many disastrous trade deals and they are disastrous. They’re destroying our country because it’s not the political system that’s rigged, it’s the whole economy.
It’s rigged by big donors who want to keep wages down.
It’s rigged by big businesses who want to leave our country, fire their workers and sell their products back into the United States with absolutely no consequences for them.
It’s rigged by bureaucrats who are trapping kids in failing schools.
It’s rigged against you – the American people.
Hillary Clinton – and as you know, she – most people know she’s a world class liar. Just look at her pathetic email statements or her phony landing.
Or her phony landing in Bosnia where she said she was under attack and the attack turned out to be young girls handing her flowers – a total and – look, this was one the beauts – a total and self-serving lie.
Brian Williams’s career was destroyed for saying less. Just remember that.
Yesterday, she even tried to attack me and my many businesses but here – and this is the way it is – is the bottom line.
I started off in Brooklyn, New York, not so long ago with a small loan and built a business that today is worth well over $10 billion.
And that’s the kind of thinking we need in our leadership of our country.
I’ve always had a talent of building businesses and importantly for creating jobs. That’s a talent our country desperately needs.
I’m running for president to end the unfairness and to put you the American worker first. It’s about time.
We’re going to put America first and we’re going to make America great again. This election will decide whether we are ruled by the people or by the politicians.
Here is my promise to the American voter. If I’m elected president, I will end the special interests monopoly in Washington, D.C. Very important.
The other candidate in this race has spent her entire life making money for special interests and I will tell you she’s made plenty of money for them and she’s been taking plenty of money out for herself.
Hillary Clinton has perfected the politics of personal profit and even theft.
She ran the State Department like her own personal hedge fund doing favors oppressive regimes and many others and really many, many others in exchange for cash. Pure and simple, folks. Pure and simple.
Then when she left, she made $21.6 million giving speeches to Wall Street banks and other special interests and in less than two years secret speeches that she does not want to reveal under any circumstances to the public. I wonder why.
Together, she and Bill made $153 million giving speeches to lobbyists, CEOs, and foreign governments in the years since 2001.
They total own her and that will never, ever change, including if she ever became president. God help us.

The choice in this election is a choice between taking our government back from the special interests or surrendering really the last scrap of independence to the total and complete control of people like the Clintons. Those are the stakes.
Hillary Clinton wants to be president but she doesn’t have the temperament or as Bernie Sanders says very strongly the judgment to be president. She does not have the judgment.
She believes she’s entitled to the office. Her campaign slogan is “I’m with her.” You know what my response is to that? I’m with you – the American people.
Thank you very much.
She thinks it’s all about her. I know it’s all about you. I know it’s all about making America great again for all Americans – all Americans.
Our country lost its way when it stopped putting the American people really first. We have to go back to putting our American people first.
We got here because we switched from the policy of Americanism, focusing on what’s good for America’s middle class to a policy of globalism, focusing on how to make money for large corporations who can move their wealth and workers to foreign countries all to the detriment of the American worker and the American economy itself.
We reward companies for off-shoring and we punish companies for doing business in America and keeping our workers employed. They get punished.
This is not a rising tide that lifts all boats. This is a wave of globalism that wipes our middle class and our jobs along with it.
We need reform and we have to reform our economic system so that once again we can all succeed together and America can become rich again. We have to make America rich again.
And that’s what I mean by America First. Our country will be better off when we start making our own products again, bringing our once great manufacturing capabilities back to the shores. I mean, we have to bring our manufacturers back to the United States. Desperately need it. Desperately we need those jobs. And we need it even from our psyche.
One of the really great things and one of the first major bills that George Washington was – amazing when I saw this for the first time – the encouragement and protection of manufacturing in America.
Our first Republican president, Abraham Lincoln, warned us by saying “The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government will produce want and ruin among our people.”
In other words, we have to protect our country. I have decided and visited cities and towns across America – all across America – and seen the devastations caused by the trade policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton and it’s total devastation – all over New York, all over Pennsylvania, all over New England, all over the country.
Hillary Clinton supported Bill Clinton’s disastrous – and totally disastrous – NAFTA just like she supported China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization.
We’ve lost nearly one-third of our manufacturing jobs since these two Hillary-backed agreements were signed. Among the worst we’ve ever done, among the most destructive agreements we’ve ever signed.
Our trade deficit with China soared 40% during Hillary Clinton’s time as Secretary of State – a disgraceful performance for which she should not be congratulated but rather scorned.
Then she left China – so true. The she left China and what happened is billions and billions of dollars in our intellectual property and China has taken it and it’s a crime which is continuously going on and it’s going on right now.
They are stealing billions and billions of dollars of our intellectual property.
Hillary Clinton gave China millions of jobs – our best jobs – and effectively let China completely rebuild itself. In return Hillary Clinton got rich.

The book, Clinton Cash, by Peter Schweizer documents how Bill and Hillary used the State Department to enrich their family at America’s expense. She gets rich making you poor.
Here is a quote from the book: “At the center of U.S. policy towards China was Hillary Clinton. At this critical time, for U.S.-China relations Bill Clinton gave a number of speeches that were underwritten by the Chinese government and its supporters. These funds were paid to the Clinton’s bank account directly while Hillary was negotiating with China on behalf of the United States.”
Tell me, folks, does that work?
She sold out our workers and our country for Beijing. Hillary Clinton has also been the biggest promoter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will ship millions more of our jobs overseas and give up congressional power to an international foreign commission.
Now, because I have pointed out why it would be such a disastrous deal, she’s pretending that she’s against it. She’s given and deleted as you know – most people have heard about this. Have we ever heard about her deleting anything? No, I don’t think so. She deleted the entire record from her book and deletion is something she really does know something about because she’s deleted at least 30,000 emails, which by the way, should be able to be found.
Should be able to be found because the government, I will say, I’ve always heard you can never really delete an email. So it should be able to be found if they really want to find them but I don’t think they want to find them.
This is the latest Clinton cover-up and it doesn’t change anything.
If she is elected president, she will adopt the Trans-Pacific Partnership and we will lose millions of jobs and our economic independence for good.
She will do this and just as she has betrayed the American worker on trade on every single stage of her career and it will be even worse than the Clintons’ NAFTA deal, and I never thought it would get worse than that.
We will lose jobs. We will lose employment. We will loses taxes…everything. We will lose our country.
I want trade deals but they have to be great for the United States and for our workers. We don’t make great deals anymore but we will once I become president. I promise you that.
It’s not just our economy that’s been corrupted but our foreign policy too.
The Hillary Clinton foreign policy has cost America thousands of lives and trillions and trillions of dollars and unleashed ISIS across the world.
No Secretary of State has been more wrong more often and in more places than Hillary Clinton.
Her decisions spread death, destruction and terrorism everywhere she touched.
Among the victims of our late ambassador Chris Stevens. I mean, she – what she did with him was absolutely horrible. He was left helpless to die as Hillary Clinton soundly slept in her bed.
That’s right. When the phone rang as per the commercial at 3 a.m. Hillary Clinton was sleeping. Ambassador Stevens and his staff in Libya made hundreds and hundreds of requests for security. They were desperate. They needed help.
Hillary Clinton’s State Department refused them all. She started the war that put them in Libya, denied him the security he asked for, then left him there to die.
To cover her tracks, Hillary lied about the videos being the cause of death. The famous video. All a lie. Another Hillary lie.

Here’s what one of the victims’ mother had to say, “I want the whole to know it. She lied to my face, and you know this person cannot be president. She cannot be president.”
In 2009, before Hillary Clinton was sworn in, it was a different world. Libya was cooperating. Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence, believe it or not. Syria was under control. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Egypt was governed by a friendly regime that honored its peace treaty with Israel – something very nice because by the way, Israel has been totally mistreated by the United States. ISIS wasn’t even on the map.
Fast-forward to 2013. In just four years, Secretary Clinton managed to almost singlehandedly destabilize the entire Middle East.
Her invasion of Libya handed the country over to ISIS, the barbarians.
Thanks to Hillary Clinton, Iran is now the dominant Islamic power in the Middle East and on the road to nuclear weapons.
Hillary Clinton’s support for a violent regime change in Syria has thrown the country into one of the bloodiest civil wars anyone has ever seen while giving ISIS a launching pad for terrorism against the West.
She helped force out a friendly regime in Europe and replace it with the radical Muslim Brotherhood. The Egyptian military has re-taken control but Clinton has opened the pandora’s box of radical Islam.
Then there was the disastrous strategy of announcing our departure from Iraq, handing large parts of the country over to ISIS and the ISIS killers.
ISIS threatens us today because of the decisions Hillary Clinton has made along with President Obama.
ISIS also threatens peaceful Muslims throughout the Middle East and peaceful Muslims across the world who have been terribly victimized by horrible brutality and who only want to raise their kids in peace and safety.
In short, Hillary Clinton’s tryout for the presidency has produced one deadly foreign policy disaster after another. One by one, they’re all bad. She’s virtually done nothing right. She’s virtually done nothing good.
It all started with her bad judgment in supporting the war in Iraq in the first place.
Though I was not in government service, I was among the earliest to criticize the rush to war and, yes, even before the war ever started.
But Hillary Clinton learned nothing from Iraq because when she got into power she couldn’t wait to rush us off to war in Libya.
She lacks the temperament and the judgment and the competence to lead our country. She should not be president under any circumstances.
In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside the Oval Office – somebody that saw her a lot and knows her probably better than almost anybody – “She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office.”
From the bottom of my soul, I know this to be true. Her leadership style – volcanic, impulsive, disdainful and disdainful of the rules set for everyone else hasn’t changed one bit.
Perhaps the most terrifying thing about Hillary Clinton’s foreign policy is that she refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by radical Islam.
In fact, Hillary Clinton supports a radical 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the United States and that’s an increase over President Obama’s already high number.
Under her plan, we would admit hundreds of thousands of refugees from the most dangerous countries on Earth with no way to screen who they are, what they are, what they believe, where they come from.
Already, hundreds of recent immigrants and their children have been convicted of terrorist activity inside the United States.

The father of the Orlando shooter was a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan – one of the most repressive anti-gay and anti-woman regimes on Earth.
I only want to admit people who share our values and love our people.
Hillary Clinton wants to bring in people who believe women should be enslaved and gays put to death.
Maybe her motivation lies among the more than 1,000 foreign donations Hillary failed to disclose while at the State Department.
Hillary Clinton may be the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency of the United States.
Here is some of what we really learned from the book in addition to what we’ve already discussed.
A foreign telecom giant faced possible State Department sanctions for providing technology to Iran and other oppressive regimes.
So what did this company do? For the first time ever, they decided to pay Bill Clinton $750,000 for a single speech.
The Clintons got their cash; the telecom company escaped all sanctions.
Hillary Clinton’s State Department approved the transfer of 20% of America’s uranium holdings while non-investors in the deal funneled $145 million to the Clinton Foundation. $145 million.
Hillary Clinton appointed a top donor to a national security board with top secret access even though he had no national security credentials, although he did make a very large campaign contribution.
Hillary Clinton accepted $58,000 in jewelry from the government of Brunei when she was Secretary of State plus millions more for her foundation. The Sultan of Brunei has pushed oppressive sharia law, including the punishment by death and stoning if you happen to be gay.
The government of Brunei also stands to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of Hillary’s Trans-Pacific Partnership, which she would absolutely approve if given the chance.
Hillary Clinton’s book – and just think of this. The book talks about it but Hillary took $25 million from Saudi Arabia and much more from others where being gay is also punishable by death.
Hillary took millions from Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, and many other countries that horribly abused women and the LGBT citizens.
To cover up her corrupt dealings, Hillary illegally stashed her State Department emails on a private server.
She’s under investigation but it seems like nothing is going to happen even though other people who have done similar things but at a much lower level their lives have been destroyed. It’s a rigged system, folks. It’s a rigged system.
Her server was easily hacked by foreign governments, perhaps even by her financial backers in Communist China. Sure they have it. Putting all of America and our citizens in danger – great danger.
Then there are the 33,000 emails she deleted. While we may not know what’s in those deleted emails, our enemies probably know every single one of them.

So they probably have now a blackmail file over someone who wants to be the president of the United States.
This fact alone disqualifies her from the presidency.
We can’t hand over our government to someone who’s deepest darkest secrets may be in the hands of our enemies. Can’t do it.
National security is also immigration security and Hillary wants neither.
Hillary Clinton has put forward the most radical immigration platform in the history of the United States. She’s pledged to grant mass amnesty and in her first 100 days end virtually all immigration enforcement and thus create totally open borders for the United States.
And by the way, 16,500 Border Patrol agents have endorsed Donald Trump – the first time in the history that they’ve endorsed a presidential candidate.
The first victims of her radical policies will be poor African-American and Hispanic workers who need jobs. They’re also the ones she will hurt the most by far.
Let me share with you a letter our campaign received from Marianne [sp] Mendoza. She lost her amazing son, Police Sgt. Brandon [sp] Mendoza, after he was killed by an illegal immigration because of open borders and policies supported by Hillary Clinton.
Sadly, the Mendoza family is just one of thousands who have suffered the same fate. Here’s an excerpt from Mrs. Mendoza’s letter: “Hillary Clinton, who already has the blood of so many on her hands, is now announcing that she’s willing to put each and everyone of our lives in harm’s way – an open door policy to criminals and terrorists to enter our country. Hillary is not concerned about you or I. She’s only concerned about the power of the presidency and the power that it would bring. She needs to go to prison to pay for the crimes that she’s already committed against our country.” That’s from Mrs. Mendoza.
Hillary also wants to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to settle Middle Eastern refugees in the United States on top of the current record level of immigration that we already have.
For the amount of money Hillary Clinton would like to spend on refugees, we could rebuild every inner city in America.
Hillary’s Wall Street immigration agenda will keep immigrant communities poor and unemployed Americans totally out of work. She can’t claim to care about African-American and Hispanic workers when she wants to bring in millions of new low-wage earners to compete against them and win against them because the system is rigged against our people.
Here are a few things a Trump administration will do for the Americans and for the American people but for our country.
Number one, the first 100 days I will appoint judges who will uphold the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary Clinton’s radical judges will virtually abolish the Second Amendment. Can’t let that happen.
I will change immigration rules to give unemployed Americans an opportunity to fill good – really good paying jobs. We don’t have good jobs anymore. These will be good-paying jobs.
We’ll stand up to countries that cheat on trade of which there are many. We’ll cancel rules and regulations that send jobs overseas everywhere else but our country.

We’ll lift restrictions on energy production.
We will repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare. It is a total disaster.
We’ll pass massive tax reform to create millions of new jobs and lower taxes for everyone.
And we are by the way the highest taxed nation in the world. Please remember that.
We will impose tough new ethics rules to restore dignity to the Office of the Secretary of State.
There is one common theme in all of these reforms. It’s going to be America First.
This is why stakes in November are so great.
On Election Day, the politicians stand trial before the people. The voters are the jury. Their ballots are the verdict.
We don’t need or want another Clinton or Obama. We just can’t take it anymore. So bad for our country and our people.
Come November the American people will have a chance to issue a verdict on the politicians that have sacrificed their security, betrayed their prosperity, and sold out their country, and I mean totally sold out their country.
They will have a chance to vote for a new agenda with big dreams, bold ideas, and enormous possibilities for the American people.
Hillary Clinton’s message is old and tired.
Her message is that things can’t change. My message is that things have to change and that this is our one chance and maybe our only chance to do that change and if we don’t do it now folks, I don’t know that we’ll ever ever have another chance. We have to have change but real change, not Obama change.
Americans are the people that tamed the West, that dug out the Panama Canal, that sent satellites across the solar system, that build the great dams and so much more.
Then we really started thinking small. Something happened. Something happened to our mentality. We stated thinking small. We stopped believing in what America could do and became reliant on other countries, other people, and other institutions. We lost our sense of purpose and daring. But that’s not who we are.
Come this November, we can bring America back bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
We will build the greatest infrastructure on the planet Earth – the roads, the railways, and the airports of tomorrow.
Our military, which has totally depleted, will have the best technology and the finest equipment. We will bring it back to the way that it must be – strong, strong, strong.
Massive new factories will come roaring into our country, breathing life and hope into our communities.

Inner cities, which have been horribly abused by Hillary Clinton and the Democrat Party, will finally, finally, finally be rebuilt.
Construction is what I know. I say nobody knows it better. The real wages for our workers have not been raised for 18 years. But these wages will start going up along with new jobs, jobs, jobs.
Hillary’s massive taxation, regulation, and open borders will destroy jobs and drive down wages for everyone, and that’s what’s been happening, and that’s why you’re seeing so many people coming to our rallies and so much unbelievable support.
We’re also going to be supporting our police and law enforcement. We can never forget the great job they do.
I’m also going to appoint great Supreme Court justices. So important. One of the most important factors in this election. We’re going to have many appointments. Could be as many as five. Probably will be three. Could be four. One of the really big factors in this election. We’re going to appoint Supreme Court justices who will be outstanding – outstanding. So important.
Our country is going to start working again. Jobs. People are going to start working again. Parents are going to start dreaming big for their children again, including parents in our inner cities.
Americans – the people that we love – America First. Make our country great again. Americans are going to start believing in the future of our country.
We are going to make America rich again. We are going to make America safe again. We are going to make America great again and great again for everyone – everyone.
Thank you very much.

Question: 
[On Brexit]
Donald Trump: 
I think I see a big parallel. I think people really see a big parallel. A lot of people are talking about that and not only in the United States but in other countries.
People want to take their country back and they want to have independence in a sense.
And you see it with Europe. All over Europe. You’re going to have more than just – in my opinion – more than just what happened last night.
You’re going to have I think many other cases where they want to take their borders. They want to take their monetary back. They want to take a lot of things back. They want to be able to have a country again.
So I think you’re going to have this happen more and more. I really believe that.
And I think it’s happening in the United States. It’s happening by the fact that I’ve done so well in the polls. You look at the recent polling and you look at the swing states and you see how I’m doing and I haven’t even started my campaign yet essentially.
We’ve done very well. We’re raising a lot of money for the Republican Party. I’m going to funding a lot myself. But we’re raising a lot of money for the Republican Party, and you’ll see those numbers come out over the next 30 days and in particular 60 days.
The numbers that were put out last week was just the very start. That was a very small period of time. Just a start. But we have raised a lot of money, especially money coming in small – from small donors. You’ll be amazed when you see the kind of numbers we’re talking about because we were amazed and I was amazed. But that will be reported fairly soon.
But I really do see a parallel between what’s happening in the United States and what’s happening here.
People want to see borders. They don’t necessarily want people pouring into their country that they don’t know who they are, where they come from, they have no idea.
And I think, you know, not only did it win, but it won by a much bigger margin than people thought would happen.

Question: 
[On Brexit]
Donald Trump:
You just have to embrace it. It’s the will of the people. You know, it’s not a question of approaching it. It’s the will of the people. It’s always the will of the people. Ultimately, that wins out.
Question: 
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, nobody knows. Look, if the pound goes down they’re going to do more business. You know, when the pound goes down, more people are coming to Turnberry, frankly. And the pound has gone down, and let’s see what the impact of that has.
But I think places like Scotland and England and different places in Great Britain, I think you’re going to see a lot of activity.
The pound got high and people weren’t able to do maybe what they wanted to do. But for traveling and for other things, you know, I think it could very well turn out to be a positive.
Nobody really knows. You’ll know in about five years. You’ll be able to analyze it and maybe it’ll take even longer than that.
But what is known is that they’ve taken back their independence, and that’s a very, very important.

Question: 
[On consulting with his foreign policy advisers on Brexit]
Donald Trump:
Well, I’ve been in touch with them but there’s nothing to talk about.
You know, I’ve been saying that I would prefer what happened. I thought this would be a good thing. I think it’ll turn out to be a good thing. Maybe short-term not but ultimately I think it will be a good thing.
And I’ve actually been in touch. And some by the way don’t like it and some do like it. You know, they’re advisers. They’re like everybody else. They probably know less – every one of these advisers.
Somebody said, “Gee, you should use advisers that have been really hot for the last five years.” I said, “Really? I think I want to use ones that haven’t been involved.”
Take a look at what’s happened in the world.
Question: 
[On UK-US relationship post-Brexit]
Donald Trump:
Well, look, I don’t know first call or second call. They’ll be a very powerful call. That’s going to be a great relationship. They’ll be great allies. They always have been. And I think zero will change on that score. There has never been a better ally and I think nothing will change on that score.
Question: 
[On trade deal with U.S.]
Donald Trump:
Well, President Obama did say, I guess, that they should move to the back of the line. That wouldn’t happen with me.
The UK has been such a great ally for so long. They’ll always be at the front of the line. They’ve been amazing allies in good times and in bad times. And sometimes they make mistakes together, as we know, but they’ve always been great allies.
So I will tell you I think that I was very surprised when I heard President Obama say that. And I think he said that because he thought for sure it was going to stay together but it didn’t stay together.
And I felt it wouldn’t stay together and again I think that’s what’s happening in the United States. It’s not staying together, it’s a really positive force taking place.
They want to take their country back. The people want their country back.
We don’t want to lose our jobs. We don’t want to lose our borders. They want to have wage increases. They haven’t in the United States, folks, for the members and all of my members are Turnberry, we’ve had hardworking great people that haven’t had a real wage increase in 18 years. So they’re working harder now and they’re making less money.

Question: 
[On Brexit having a negative impact on US economy]
Donald Trump:
They don’t know. I mean, look, we’re going to have to see how it plays out.
What I like is that I love to see people take their country back, and that’s really what’s happening in the United States and I think you see that. And that’s what’s happening in many other places in the world. They’re tired of it. They want to take their countries back.
You know, this isn’t such phenomenon like some people are saying.
And when people ask me what I thought was going to happen, as you know, I said I think they’re going to break away. And it’s just turned out that way.
And it was a little bit surprising because the polls indicated probably that it wouldn’t happen. 80%.
And when I landed this morning, the first thing I asked is that.
And I mean, it was fairly close but it wasn’t that close. So we’ll see what happens.
I think it’ll be a good thing. You’re taking your country back. You’re going to let people that you want into your country, and people that you don’t want or people that you don’t think are going to be appropriate for your country or good for your country, you’re not going to have to take.
And, you know, look, Europe like the United States has made tremendous mistakes over the last period of time.
You look at Germany. You look at some of the things that are happening. There have been tremendous mistakes that have been made.
So, I think it’s going to end up being a very good thing. But it’ll take time.
Question:
[On whether Trump had influence over UK voters on Brexit]
Donald Trump:
It’s a good question.
If I said yes, total influence, they’ll say, “That’s terrible. His ego is terrible.” Right? So I will never say that…I’d like to give you that one but I can’t say that.
And you know, look, the question was what do I think and I gave my opinion a few times over the last few months. But I also said I really don’t want people to listen to it because it’s not me, it’s about them. It’s about them. It’s their country.
But my opinion is that what happened should have happened and I think they’ll end up being stronger for it and they’ll control their country and they’ll control everything about their country.
Question:
[On whether David Cameron should resign]
Donald Trump:
Well, I like David Cameron. He had a couple of rough statements but that’s okay. I think David Cameron’s a good man. He was wrong on this. He didn’t get the mood of his country right. He was surprised. I think he was very surprised to see what happened. But he’s a good man and he felt that way and probably did the right thing. But we’ll see what happens. But I like David Cameron.
Question:
[On whether Trump supports Scotland’s independence]
Donald Trump:
Well, that’s up to the people of Scotland, and you know, we’ve been through this. And really again I leave it up to the people. I love the people of Scotland. That’s why I built in Aberdeen one of the great golf courses of the world. It was just judged to be the greatest course ever built new – new being defined as from 1960 to present. And we’re very proud of it. And I’ve gotten to know the people of Scotland so well and through my mother and through everything else. The people of Scotland are amazing people.
And you know that question really has to be addressed to the people.
It was a very, very close vote. I don’t know that people want to go through that again.
I was here when they were going through that vote. I didn’t take sides but I will tell you it was a nasty period. And I can’t imagine they’d go through that again. But the people of Scotland may speak differently.

Question:
[On whether Trump supports the break-up of the European Union]
Donald Trump:
Well, it looks like it’s on its way and we’ll see what happens. I can tell you, I have a lot of friends living in Germany that have always been very proud Germans to a level that you wouldn’t believe. They would be bragging about their country. They would be talking about their country as though there was no other place. They’re members of Mar-a-Lago and other places that I have. And now those same people, some of them, are saying they’re leaving Germany. They’re moving. They’d never even thought about moving. Now, they’re thinking about moving because of the tremendous influx of people, and you know what’s happening in Germany. It’s a real problem. And these were people that were very proud Germans that were beyond belief – they thought the greatest that ever was – and now they’re talking about leaving Germany and you see the problems in Germany.
So I could see it happening. I have no opinion really but I could certain see it happening.
I saw this happening. I could read what was happening here and I could see things happening in Germany.
I hope they straighten out the situation because you know, it can really become a nasty – it can be very nasty. What’s going on can be very, very nasty.
Building safe zones in Syria? Great idea. Building safe zones – magnificent, big safe as can be. But when you’re taking them into the United States by the thousands – we don’t know who they are – and when you’re taking them into Germany and other countries. And all you have to do is look around. Look around the world. See what’s happening. Some real problems.
Question:
[On using immigration to divide people]
Donald Trump:
Well, you unite people by having a happy country. And when people pour into the country and it doesn’t work whether it’s because of crime or you know various other things. You’re not going to be uniting anybody.
I just told you about Germany where people want to leave Germany. People that I would never in a million years have said these people want to leave. They’re going to be leaving.
So you can’t unite a country by forcing things the people’s throats. And that’s what happened here. People are not happy.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
…No, if anything, I have big investments over in Europe. As you know, I own Doonbeg in Ireland, which is a phenomenal hotel – one of the most beautiful hotels – one of the most highly-rated hotels in all of Europe, and it’s got a golf course on this large almost 500 acre parcel of land on the Atlantic Ocean and does great. I own Turnberry. I own Aberdeen. I’m going to go stop at Aberdeen for a little while. I’m actually leaving – I’ll only be here for one night because I have to go back to campaign, which I actually love doing, to be honest with you.
But I wanted to – really I wanted to support my children who have really poured their hearts and souls into this development. But I think you understand.
Question:
[On why Trump is in Scotland]
Donald Trump:
Yeah, you want to know why I’m here? Because I support my children.
Question:
[On soliciting campaign donations]
Donald Trump:
Yeah, I don’t like doing it. I don’t like doing it. Again, I’m an honest politician, probably one of the few.
Tom’s asking does it bother me to – when you’re raising money – and again, Tom, I’m raising this money for the Republican Party. It’s something I’ve never done.
I’ve always contributed money to lots of people. A lot of campaign contributions over the years. And once I ran, I became like an outsider.
But no, I don’t like doing that but I have done it and we’ve had amazing weeks.
Last week, we were in Houston. As you know, we had tremendous lines. I made a speech also and the lines were – actually on ABC they reported – ABC local – they followed the lines all the way to the highways. It was – actually I’ve never seen anything like that, and then Dallas where we had a similar thing.
But we also had fundraisers, and I’ve really never done. You know, I sit with 20 people and we talk and they all hand you checks – bing, bing, bing, bing. And they’re checks to the RNC and the Republican Party and I feel like I have an obligation to do that.
And Tom, the numbers are going to be, I think, quite staggering, especially in July…Don’t forget, we just sort of started this process a few weeks ago and the first filing was for a very limited period of time and it was almost before we started. But the numbers are amazing.
Actually, the numbers for the small donations – we’ve taken a lot of money otherwise – but the numbers for the small donations are coming in at – I mean, it’s beyond anything that we thought. You know, the $25 and $50 and $100 donations. But we’ll be reporting in June.
But especially the July report I think we’ll show you some pretty massive numbers.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I match, right? I put up $2 million and I say you know let’s see who’s going to go and we’ve raised more than $2 million but I guess I’ve offered a $2 million incentive to people to put up money.
And I don’t know if that was the reason but we had a tremendous response to that.
Question:
[On Obama and Clinton’s encouragement of UK voters to vote Remain]
Donald Trump:
Well, she’s [referring to Hillary Clinton] always misread everything. No, if you think, she’s misread this and I was surprised that she was so bold. Well, the only reason she did it is because Obama wanted her. You know, if Obama wanted the other way, if he said, “Leave”, she would have said leave. She does whatever he wants her to do. Now, you know why. But that’s okay. We don’t have to get into that.
But I was actually very surprised that President Obama would have come over here and he would have been so bold as to tell the people over here what to do. And I think that a lot of people don’t like him and a lot of people voted. If he had not said it, I think your result might have been different. But when he said it, people were not happy about it and I thought it was totally inappropriate.
And when I said what I said, I told people, I said, “Don’t do what I’m saying necessarily. Do whatever you think but this was just my opinion.”
He came in and really tried to convince people to stay, and I thought it was inappropriate. And then she doubled down and she did the same thing.
And obviously for the 219th time, they were wrong. They’re always wrong, and that’s the problem with them.
Question:
[On whether Trump would support Boris Johnson as prime minister]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know. We don’t know. I’m sure he’ll be good. He got it right. So that gives him an advantage. But I don’t know him.
Question:
[On campaign shake-up]
Donald Trump:
I really don’t think so. First of all, Corey [Lewandowski] was fantastic and we did a great job with a very small group of people.
You know, I say this to all the folks here that don’t come from the United States I ran a campaign in the primaries where we got the largest number of votes in the history of the Republican Party primary votes. So, larger than Ronald Reagan, larger than Richard Nixon, larger than Dwight D. Eisenhower who helped win the Second World War.
And we ran a very lean campaign and I had fewer people and I spent less money and I funded the money myself. I spent $55 million, I think…
And by the way, I’m forced – you know, legally, I have to pay myself back. In other words, if I use – this has nothing to do with the campaign. And you won’t see this. This is to support my children. But if I use one of my resorts in the United States and we have a press conference or something, by law I have to pay myself back. I would like not to. I’d like to just say use the ballroom and let’s not bother with it because a couple of people say I pay. By law you have to pay yourself back.
I think that we should have been given credit for, in addition to winning, for winning with less money spent and with a smaller staff.
So now we have a staff of 73 people. And Hillary has a staff of 900 people. I won and she won. I don’t think that – I mean, honestly, as a businessman, I say, “Wow, he won with spending less money and a smaller staff.” See, I’d view that as an advantage. A lot of the pundits say, “She has a much bigger staff.” Well, I think we’re very nimble. I think we’re very nimble. I think we’re doing well. And you’ve seen the polls that are coming in. They’re very close and very equal.
We just had one coming out, I think, from West Virginia where I have a 25 point lead. And North Carolina came out yesterday, we have a 2 point lead. Ohio’s even. Pennsylvania’s even.
The national polls, we’re getting very close. And I’m spending much less money. She’s spending tremendous amounts of money. We haven’t even started yet. So it’s going to be very interesting because she’s spent – what was it? $28 million? I mean, she’s spent a lot of money and we’re even. And I think that’s a good sign and I think that’s a good sign.
When I won New Hampshire, I spent a tiny fraction of what other candidates spent – one in particular. I won New Hampshire by a landslide. That person came in seventh.
I think, you know, when you can do it on a smaller budget and with fewer people, that’s the kind of person they want to be the president because to me that’s a big thing.

Question:
[On whether Trump will cut ties with his business while running for president]
Donald Trump:
I will do it. Yeah, I’ll do that…I will do that. Well, I don’t think it matters while I’m running. While I’m running, it doesn’t matter.
And again, I’m here really for the sole reason – although I did want to see the job that Eric did because if he didn’t do a good job, he wouldn’t be standing here right now. I would give him a hard time. Right? He did a beyond job. Beyond. This is phenomenal…
But no, I will absolutely cut ties.
You know, the rules are nobody knows. Okay? It’s never had where somebody has this big a business and runs for president and wins.
If I win, I would – even though I don’t have to do that – I would probably put everything in trust. My children will run it along with my executives. It’s a big company. My children will run it along with my executives and just do a good job running it.
Let me tell you, the importance of the opportunity that I may be given is so important and so massive – making great trade deals with China and with you folks by the way – but with China, the numbers are so staggering when you look at trade deficits of $400 billion and $500 billion a year. The numbers are so staggering and so incredible, I wouldn’t even be thinking about the business. I mean, who cares? I mean, I would actually say, “Who cares?”
No, I would absolutely – you don’t have to do this but I would most likely just put it in a blind trust and they would run it or something.
Question:
[On why Trump continues holding campaign events at Trump properties]
Donald Trump:
Well, I do use my properties. Number one, I have the best properties. Okay? And you can say that. And I will say a lot of the press has said, “Whether you like him or not, there’s no properties like that.” I have the best properties and you don’t get to see that otherwise. But I have the best properties.
And the other thing is why should I use somebody else’s properties? Number one, it’s not as good. And number two, you know, it’s one of those things.
Now, I wish frankly that I wasn’t forced by law to pay myself back. We’re forced to pay. You do understand that? Because a couple of people said he’s paying to his campaign. I’m not paying to my campaign.
I would love to give everything for nothing.
But by law, I’m forced – whatever the fair market value of a ballroom is or whatever it may be that we use or an airplane as an example. If I use an airplane, by law, I have to pay it back. And that’s what I do and that’s reflected in the filings.
Question:
[On criticizing Obama]
Donald Trump:
Well, he didn’t stop at the water’s edge because he made statements about this incredible part of the world and what this particular country, and frankly, a large group of countries should do.
I mean, he’s constantly dictating to the world what they should do. The world doesn’t listen to him obviously. You can see that by the vote. But he’s constantly dictating to other countries.
So certainly, it doesn’t stop at the water’s edge with him. And you know, very importantly he got it totally wrong. And he’s embarrassed. I mean, he’s embarrassed by the Supreme Court decision yesterday, which was a real rebuke. And he’s very embarrassed by he got involved. I don’t know if that was through a friendship with David Cameron. It could have been, and I understand friendship, and I can understand why he did it. I can understand that.
But I think it’s something he shouldn’t have done. It’s not his country. It’s not his part of the world. He shouldn’t have done it and I actually think that his recommendation perhaps caused it to fail.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think a lot of it is. But I think a lot of it’s borders. I think a lot of it’s immigration…I mean, I have so many members here. Hundreds and hundreds of members sitting in the back, and I’ve spoke to them and they’re not happy with the people flowing into the country. They don’t want that to happen. And I think that has a lot to do that with.
I think the borders – you know, it’s not so different. It’s amazing the way the world is not so different. We’re on the other side of the ocean, but the world is not so different. We’re right over there you go many, many miles right in that direction and to be honest with you, I think a lot of it has to do with immigration.
But I also think a lot of it has to do with the fact that they wanted to be independent. They get tired of seeing stupid decisions just like the American people are tired of seeing stupid decisions, whether it’s the Iran deal, whether it’s the border where people just flow across the border like Swiss cheese. They’re tired of seeing stupid decisions made. They’re tired of looking at horrible trade deals. And you have bad trade deals here too. And so I think that has a lot to do with it.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I think the Brexit deal I think when you talk about Leave, you know, I felt again knowing the people here very well but not wanting to get involved but I felt that that was going to happen. I felt it was going to happen. And there was great similarities between what happened here and my campaign. People wanted to take their country back.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, I almost delayed this. You know, by the way, they said there were going to be 2,000 protesters. There turned out – we counted them – 43. 43 and they’re way over there. The police did a great job. But it was nothing much to do, frankly. There were 43 just on the record because we heard there were going to be thousands of protesters. 43. And my members are very happy with Donald Trump, I can tell you. Is that a correct statement? They love Donald Trump…
And no, they love what we’ve done here. You know, this is a little bit of what we’re going to do to the United States.
You know, the United States has rotted infrastructure. We have roads that are crumbling.
I have a friend who’s a trucker. A big trucker. One of the biggest in the world actually. And he said he buy these brand new magnificent trucks. They cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and he’s never had this problem before. They’re just getting destroyed because the highways are loaded with potholes. And when you have an 18-wheeler or a 16-wheeler and you have these big massive trucks and they’re going down a highway at 65 miles an hour and they hit a pothole and they’re loaded up with tons of stuff, he said those trucks, no matter how good they are, they get wiped out. And that’s what’s happening to our country.
And I think this is sort of a mini example of what we’ve done here – the members love us. Scotland loves us for what we’ve done. The council – our council member here…The council has been so incredible and you know it’s just been a big love fest.
What we do is the United States needs its infrastructure fixed. You know, the bridges are a disaster. The roads are a disaster.
My friend told me, he said, he’s never had a problem like this before. He said you go down the highway and a brand new truck that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars is virtually destroyed. They have to bring it back and have it re-hauled because they’re hitting potholes all over the place on highways.
Our infrastructure is crumbling in the United States, and we’ve spent probably if you added up now $4 trillion – maybe more than that – in the Middle East and we have a problem.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, it’s not but you’d be amazed how similar it is. It’s called it’s a place that has to be fixed. And there’s nobody that knows how to fix things like me. And there’s nobody that knows how to build like me…

Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I don’t care. I don’t care about that. If it’s about my brand, I wouldn’t have done this. No, if it was about my brand, I wouldn’t have done this because I’ve given up a lot.
I’ve given up The Apprentice. I said I’m not going to do it. Steve Burke [sp] wanted me to do, you know, years more of The Apprentice, continues to do great. I had to give it up because you’re not allowed to do this, you know, with the equal time laws and provisions. You’re not allowed to do it.
I’ve lost certain things, especially early on. You know, early on, I lost Macy’s and I’m glad to see Macy’s stock tanked because they were very disloyal. But just over the subject of illegal immigration, I lost Macy’s as a vendor for ties and shirts and things. It was not a big deal but it was still a loss.
No, this is not for brand. If I wanted to do good for my brand, I wouldn’t have done this because, you know, when you – one thing about politics – everybody like me. But once you run for politics, you’ll have 55 for you and 45 against. I’ve never had that before. It’s very interesting.
My wife said to me, “You know, I’ve never heard this before. There were some crowds – some of the crowds were a little hostile.” She said, “I’ve been with you for many years and the crowds always loved you. And now you have half the crowd hostile and half the crowd loves you.”
And that’s called politics. You know, if you run for office and you get 55% of the vote, that’s considered like a landslide. That’s a big, big difference. But that means that 45% of the people don’t like you.
So for my brand, this has not been a good thing. Although I mean, look where we’ve come. We started out – we were one in 17 and you know we won. We won. And I think we’re going to go much further than that.

Question:
[On Trump being the chief benefactor of Brexit]
Donald Trump:
That Putin and myself are the chief beneficiaries – well, I don’t know about that. I know that I think he would be probably because I know how he’s been scorned to a certain extent. Certainly, he’s not a person that likes our president very much. You know, our president doesn’t like him very much. He said some very nice things about me. I think he probably is somewhat of a beneficiary. And we’ll just see how it all works out.
I think that – I think it’s going to end up being a great thing and the beautiful, beautiful, beautiful thing is your people have taken the country back and there’s something very, very nice about that. And they’ve voted and it’s been peaceful. And it was strong and very contentious. And in many respects, I watched last night, it was a little bit ugly. But it’s been an amazing process to watch. It’s a big move.
And you know, when I came here, I said, “Who’s going to come out here?” It turned out that probably more people came out here. There’s a tremendous turnout.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Where’s David Cameron right now? David Cameron would have met me. David Cameron was negotiating to meet me. But right now, I don’t think David Cameron wants to meet anybody.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No, I think what happened I think we have a nasty, nasty guy. I think we have something that people really respect what I did. I took one of the great assets of Scotland and brought it back to a level that it’s never even seen. As great as Turnberry has been over the years – and it’s been one of the great of the world – it’s now at a higher level than it’s ever been. It’s never seen these levels before and so we’re very proud of that.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
Well, it’s moving along and we’re going to see. All I do is I do the right thing. I mean I’m doing what’s right for our country and obviously it resonates because I have a tremendous number of backers and support.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
I don’t know – I don’t think I have extreme rhetoric, actually. I don’t know…I think that what happened – I was watching some of the commentators before and a lot of them were saying that. I’m not sure it matters from my standpoint. But I think it does show something about the people wanting their country back.
And I can tell you in the United States, the people want their country back. In the United States, people want smart decisions, not dumb decisions, and we’ve been given dumb decisions for many years and the people are tired of it. And I have a feeling the same thing has happened over here and that’s why you have the result that you had.
I love you all. Thank you very much. And thank you to my members and thank you to the council. The council has been amazing. And thank you all for being here. Thank you.

I’m a father of five young children, from two-year-old Chloe to Kai who just turned nine. I’m the husband to Vanessa, an amazing wife and mother. And a son of a great man.
I’m an American. And tonight I want to talk to you about the country we live in. The country our children will grow up in.
For my generation, this is the most important election of our lifetime – one that will determine the future of our country and in turn the future of the world.
For too long our country has ignored its problems, punting them down the road for its future generations to deal with.
In business, I was trained by my father to make the tough investments and decisions today to ensure a brighter future tomorrow.
We’ve actually started to believe that solving our great problems is an impossible task. And that’s why we need to elect a man who has a track record of accomplishing the impossible.
For the first time, parents no longer think that their kids will be as well off as we were. We’ve lost the confidence in our leaders and the faith in our institutions.
We’ll remember one thing. We’re still Americans. We’re still one country, and we’re going to get it all back. We’re going to get it back better than ever before.
I know we’ll get it back because I know my father. I know that when people tell him it can’t be done, that guarantees that he gets it done.
I know that when someone tells him that something is impossible, that’s what triggers him into action.
When people told him that it was impossible for a boy from Queens to go to Manhattan and take on developers in the big city, rather than give up, he changed the skyline of New York.
I’ve seen it time and time again. That look in his eyes when someone says it can’t be done.
I saw that look a little over a year ago when he was told he couldn’t possibly succeed in politics. Yes, he did.
For my father, impossible is just the starting point. That’s how he approaches business projects. That’s how he approaches life.
Whether it’s teaching his granddaughter how to swing a golf club or tackling the toughest negotiations, he’s always fully committed.
That’s why the person who had never run for office before, stood on the stage 11 months ago, in this very arena, with 16 professional politicians, and this week that same man will stand before you as our party’s nominee for the president of the United States of America!
As a proud son and family member, it was one of the great honors of my life to be able to put him over the top in the delegate count earlier today.
His unrelenting determination is why he’s going to become our next president. And why I know that when my father says he can fix the country, he means it.
You want to know what kind of president he’ll be?
Let me tell you how he ran his businesses, and I know because I was there with him, by his side on job sites, in conference rooms from the time I could walk.
He didn’t hide out behind some desk in an executive suite. He spent his career with regular Americans. He hung out with the guys on construction sites, pouring sheet rock and pouring concrete and hanging sheet rock. He listened to them and he valued their opinions as much and often more than the guys from Harvard and Wharton locked away in offices, away from the real work.
He’s recognized the talent and the drive that all Americans have.
He’s promoted people based on their character, their street smarts, and their work ethic, not simply paper credentials.
To this day, many of the top executives in our company are individuals that started out in positions that were blue collar. But he saw something in them and he pushed them to succeed.
The true gift as a leader is that he sees the potential in people that they don’t even see in themselves – the potential that other executives would overlook because their resumes don’t include the names of fancy colleges and degrees.

I know he values those workers and those qualities in people, because those are the individuals he had my sibling and me work under when we started out.
That he would trust his own children’s formative years to these men and women says all you need to know about Donald Trump.
We didn’t learn from MBAs. We learned from people who had doctorates in common sense. Guys like Vinny Stellio [sp], who taught us how to drive heavy equipment, operate tractors and chainsaws, who worked his way through the ranks to become a trusted adviser of my father.
It’s why we’re the only children of billionaires as comfortable in a D10 Caterpillar as we are in our own cars.
My father knew that those were the guys and gals that would teach us the dignity of hard work from a very young age.
He knows that at the heart of the American dream is the idea that whoever we are, wherever we’re from, we can get ahead, where everyone can prosper together.
The other party also tells us they believe in the American dream. They say we should worry about economic inequality and immobility.
You know what? They’re right. But they don’t tell you that it was their policies that caused the problem and it was their policies that have no accountability.
They gave us the worst immigration system in the world, one that imports immobility, one that drives down employment and wages for Hispanic Americans, for African Americans, and for everyone. An immigration system that favors illegals over those trying to go through the process legally and, at times, even over law-abiding citizens.
It was Bernie Sanders himself who warned that a large tide of new workers keeps wages low and poverty high.
The other party gave us public schools that far too often fail our students, especially those who have no options.
Growing up, my siblings and I, we were truly fortunate to have choices and options that others don’t have. We want all Americans to have those same opportunities.
Our schools used to be an elevator to the middle class, now they’re stalled on the ground floor. They’re like Soviet-era department stores that are run for the benefit of the clerks, and not the customers, for the teachers and the administrators and not the students.
You know why other countries do better on K through 12? They let parents choose where to send their own children to school.
That’s called competition. It’s called the free market.
And it’s what the other party fears. They fear it because they’re more concerned about protecting the jobs of tenured teachers than serving the students in desperate need of a good education.
They want to run everything top-down from Washington. They tell us they’re the experts and they know what’s best.
The other party gave us a regulatory state on steroids.
Dodd-Frank was a thousand pages long and it’s already spun off 22,000 pages in regulations.
Imagine trying to digest all that before you even open your doors for business. That doesn’t help consumers. What it does is destroy small business in favor of big businesses who can afford the vast number of lawyers and accountants needed to comply. Dodd-Frank is consumer protection for billionaires.
We’ve produced the thickest network of patronage and influence of any country at any time in world history. It’s composed of a self-satisfied people at the top – our new aristocrats. We can’t live that way any longer, it’s too risky.
Let me talk a little bit about risks.
The other party is the party of risk.
I’ve spent many time with many great Americans who have served this country in the military, and they know what’s at stake. When we have weak leaders in positions of power, Americans risking their lives for our freedoms are less safe.
You know, almost daily I get a call or a text from a real American hero. His name is Mark Geist and I’m proud to call him a friend.
Mark was part of the security team at the annex on our grounds at the consulate in Benghazi.

Mark was one of the men who received frantic phone calls from his buddies at the compound. Calls that pleaded for help. Calls that he and his team tried to answer. But calls that didn’t save all his friends because Secretary Clinton’s State Department had ignored their request for help, both on the night in question and even in the weeks and months leading up to the attack.
It was a tragedy and one that would be repeated were she to win the election.
Ask Mark, who’s fit to lead? Who has the judgment to lead? Who will take that call at three o’clock in the morning? Or better yet, ask yourselves if you were in Mark’s shoes that night, who would you rather call?
Let me tell you something about risk, if Hillary Clinton were elected, she’d be the first president who couldn’t pass a basic background check. It’s incredible.
Hillary Clinton is a risk Americans can’t afford to take.
She says she’ll issue executive orders to take away Americans’ guns. She wants to appoint judges who will abolish the Second Amendment.
Just look at how effective those laws have been in inner city Chicago. A city with the toughest gun laws in our nation, where 70 people were murdered last month alone and where over 3,400 American lives have been lost since this administration took office in 2009.
You know why those laws fail? Because criminals by definition don’t follow laws.
Rather than prosecuting real criminals, she would strip hard working, law abiding citizens of their rights to protect themselves and their families.
She’ll throw every possible obstacle in the path of safe, reliable, affordable, energy, produced in America, by Americans for American businesses and families.
Rather than being energy independent, our country will be forced to remain beholden to her buddies in the Middle East.
Those are risks we can’t afford to take. And when we win, we’re not going to have to.
There’s so much work to do.
We will not accept the current state of our country because it’s too hard to change. That’s not the America I know.
We’re going to unleash the creative spirit and energy of all Americans.
We’re going to make our schools the best in the world for every single American of every single ethnicity and background.
We’re going to put Americans first. All Americans. Not a special class of crony elites at the top of the heap.
We’re going to elect a president who will work with everyone to pass legislation that will make our country great again.
A president who will give us a tax code that will free the American economy and end special loopholes for the wealthy.
A president who will give us an immigration law that protects American citizens and gives them jobs.
A president who will repeal and replace Obamacare without leaving our most vulnerable citizens without health care and who will do it without destroying Medicare for seniors as Hillary Clinton has proposed.
A president who knows we can’t simply delete our problems but that we have to tackle them head on.
A president who won’t allow PC culture to put the safety and well-being of our children and our loved ones at stake.
A president who won’t bow and pander to nations that shudder at the very thought of America’s existence.
A president more concerned with the safety and comfort of his fellow Americans than the feelings of those hostile nations abroad, who if given the option would wipe America off the face of this Earth!
A president not beholden to special interests, foreign and domestic, and one who funded his entire primary run out of his own pocket just to prove it.
A president who will secure and defend the borders of the United States and will appoint judges who believe that freedom requires a limited government.
A president who won’t use the highest office in the land as a path to personal enrichment.

A president who’s actually created real jobs, who has actually signed the front of a paycheck and who doesn’t just talk about it in theory.
A president who has real people’s families and livelihoods depending on his success and the success of his company for decades.
A president who speaks his mind and not just when it behooves him to do so, who doesn’t have to run a focus group or use data analytics to be able to form a simple opinion, who says what needs to be said and not just what you want to hear.
A president who will unleash the greatness in our nation and in all of us, who will give the hard working men and women who built this great country a voice once again.
That president can only be my mentor, my best friend, my father, Donald Trump.
And when we elect him, we’ll have done all that. We’ll have made America great again- greater than ever before.
Thank you and God bless!

…Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Friends, delegates, and fellow Americans, I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States.
USA, USA, USA, USA!
Who would have believed that when we started on June 16 last year, we – and I say we because we are a team – what have we seen? Almost 14 million votes – the most in the history of the Republican Party – and that the Republican Party would get 60% more votes than it received eight years ago.
Who would have believed this? Who would have believed this?
The Democrats on the other hand received 20% fewer votes than they got four years ago. Not so good, not so good.
Together we will lead our party back to the White House, and we will lead our country back to safety, prosperity, and peace.
We will be a country of generosity and warmth, but we will also be a country of law and order.
Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation – the attacks on our police and the terrorism of our cities threaten our very way of life. Any politician that does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country.
Americans watching this address tonight have seen the recent images of the violence in our streets and the chaos in our communities. Many have witnessed this violence personally; some have even been its victims.
I have a message for all of you: The crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon – and I mean very soon – come to an end.
Beginning on Jan. 20th of 2017, safety will be restored.
The most basic duty of government is to defend the lives of its own citizens. Any government that fails to do so is a government unworthy to lead.
It is finally time for a straightforward assessment of the state of our nation.

I will present the facts plainly and honestly. We cannot afford to be so politically correct anymore.
So if you want to hear the corporate spin, the carefully crafted lies, and the media myths, the Democrats are holding their convention next week. Go there.
But here, at our convention, there will be no lies. We will honor the American people with the truth and nothing else.
These are the facts:
Decades of progress made in bringing down crime are now being reversed by this administration’s rollback of criminal enforcement.
Homicides last year increased by 17% in America’s 50 largest cities. That’s the largest increase in 25 years.
In our nation’s capital, killings have risen by 50%. They’re up nearly 60% in nearby Baltimore.
In the president’s hometown of Chicago, more than 2,000 people have been the victim of shootings this year alone, and almost 4,000 have been killed in the Chicago area since he took office.
The number of police officers killed in the line of duty has risen by almost 50% compared to this point last year.
Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants, with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens.
The number of new illegal immigrant families who have crossed the border so far this year already exceeds the entire total from 2015.
They are being released by the tens of thousands into our communities with no regard for the impact on public safety or resources.
One such border crosser was released and made his way to Nebraska. There, he ended the life of an innocent young girl named Sarah Root. She was 21-years-old and was killed the day after graduating from college with a 4.0 grade point average – number one in her class. Her killer was then released a second time, and he is now a fugitive from the law.
I’ve met Sarah’s beautiful family. But to this administration, their amazing daughter was just one more American life that wasn’t worth protecting. No more. One more child to sacrifice on the order and on the altar of open borders.

What about our economy? Again, I will tell you the plain facts that have been edited out of your nightly news and your morning newspaper.
Nearly four in 10 African-American children are living in poverty, while 58% of African-American youth are now not employed.
Two million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took his oath of office less than eight years ago.
Another 14 million people have left the workforce entirely.
Household incomes are down more than $4,000 since the year 2000 – that’s 16 years ago.
Our trade deficit in goods reached nearly – think of this, think of this – our trade deficit is $800 billion. Think of that, $800 billion last year alone.
We’re going to fix that.
The budget is no better. President Obama has almost doubled our national debt to more than $19 trillion and growing.
And yet, what do we have to show for it? Our roads and bridges are falling apart. Our airports are Third World condition. And 43 million Americans are on food stamps.
Now, let us consider the state of affairs abroad.
Not only have our citizens endured domestic disaster, but they’ve lived through one international humiliation after another – one after another.
We all remember the images of our sailors being forced to their knees by their Iranian captors at gunpoint. This was just prior to the signing of the Iran deal, which gave back to Iran $150 billion and gave us absolutely nothing. It will go down in history as one of the worst deals ever negotiated.
Another humiliation came when President Obama drew a red line in Syria, and the whole world knew it meant absolutely nothing.
In Libya, our consulate – the symbol of American prestige around the globe – was brought down in flames.
America is far less safe – and the world is far less stable – than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America’s foreign policy.
Let’s defeat her in November, okay?
I am certain that it was a decision that President Obama truly regrets. Her bad instincts and her bad judgment – something pointed out by Bernie Sanders – are what caused so many of the disasters unfolding today.
Let’s review the record.
In 2009, pre-Hillary, ISIS was not even on the map. Libya was stable. Egypt was peaceful. Iraq was seeing a really big, big reduction in violence.

Iran was being choked by sanctions. Syria was somewhat under control.
After four years of Hillary Clinton, what do we have?
ISIS has spread across the region and the entire world.
Libya is in ruins, and our ambassador and his staff were left helpless to die at the hands of savage killers.
Egypt was turned over to the radical Muslim Brotherhood, forcing the military to retake control.
Iraq is in chaos. Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons. Syria is engulfed in a civil war and a refugee crisis now threatens the West.
After 15 years of wars in the Middle East, after trillions of dollars spent and thousands of lives lost, the situation is worse than it has ever been before.
This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton – death, destruction, terrorism, and weakness.
But Hillary Clinton’s legacy does not have to be America’s legacy.
The problems we face now – poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad – will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them in the first place.
A change in leadership is required to produce a change in outcomes.
Tonight, I will share with you my plan for action for America.
The most important difference between our plan and that of our opponent, is that our plan will put America first.
Americanism – not globalism – will be our credo.
As long as we are led by politicians who will not put America first, then we can be assured that other nations will not treat America with respect – the respect that we deserve.
The American people will come first once again.
My plan will begin with safety at home, which means safe neighborhoods, secure borders, and protection from terrorism.
There can be no prosperity without law and order.

On the economy, I will outline reforms to add millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth that can be used to rebuild America.
A number of these reforms that I will outline tonight will be opposed by some of our nation’s most powerful special interests. That’s because these interests have rigged our political and economic system for their exclusive benefit. Believe me, it’s for their benefit.
Big business, elite media, and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over every single thing she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings.
That is why Hillary Clinton’s message is that things will never change. Never ever.
My message is that things have to change, and they have to change right now.
Everyday, I wake up determined to deliver a better life for the people all across this nation that have been neglected, ignored, and abandoned.
I have visited the laid-off factory workers and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals. These are the forgotten men and women of our country, and they are forgotten but they’re not going to be forgotten long. These are people who work hard but no longer have a voice.
I am your voice.
I have embraced crying mothers who have lost their children because our politicians put their personal agendas before the national good…

I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, of which there is so much. No sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
When innocent people suffer because our political system lacks the will or the courage, or the basic decency to enforce our laws – or still worse, has sold out to some corporate lobbyist for cash – I am not able to look the other way and I won’t look the other way.
And when a Secretary of State illegally stores her emails on a private server, deletes 33,000 of them so the authorities can’t see her crime, puts our country at risk, lies about it in every different form and faces no consequence, I know that corruption has reached a level like never ever before in our country.
When the FBI Director says that the Secretary of State was “extremely careless” and “negligent” in handling our classified secrets, I also know that these terms are minor compared to what she actually did. They were just used to save her from facing justice for her terrible, terrible crimes.
In fact, her single greatest accomplishment may be committing such an egregious crime and getting away with it, especially when others have done far less have paid so dearly.
When that same Secretary of State rakes in millions and millions of dollars trading access and favors to special interests and foreign powers, I know the time for action has come.
I have joined the political arena so that the powerful can no longer beat up on people who cannot defend themselves.
Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it.
I have seen firsthand how the system is rigged against our citizens, just like it was rigged against Bernie Sanders – he never had a chance. Never had a chance.
But his supporters will join our movement, because we will fix his biggest single issue – trade deals that strip this country of its jobs and strip us of our wealth as a country.

Millions of Democrats will join our movement, because we are going to fix the system so it works fairly and justly for each and every American.
In this cause, I am proud to have at my side the next vice president of the United States, Governor Mike Pence of Indiana. And a great guy.
We will bring the same economic success to America that Mike brought Indiana, which is amazing.
He is a man of character and accomplishment. He is the man for the job.
The first task for our new administration will be to liberate our citizens from the crime and terrorism and lawlessness that threatens our communities.
America was shocked to its core when our police officers in Dallas were so brutally executed.
Immediately after Dallas, we’ve seen continued threats and violence against our law enforcement officials. Law officers have been shot or killed in recent days in Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, Michigan, and Tennessee.
On Sunday, more police were gunned down in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Three were killed, and three were very, very badly injured.
An attack on law enforcement is an attack on all Americans.
I have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: When I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country. Believe me, believe me.
I will work with and appoint the best and brightest prosecutors and law enforcement officials to get the job properly done.
In this race for the White House, I am the law and order candidate.
The irresponsible rhetoric of our president, who has used the pulpit of the presidency to divide us by race and color, has made America a more dangerous environment than, frankly, I have ever seen and anybody in this room has ever watched or seen.
This administration has failed America’s inner cities.
Remember, it has failed America’s inner cities.
It’s failed them on education. It’s failed them on jobs. It’s failed them in crime. It’s failed them in every way and on every single level.

When I am president, I will work to ensure that all of our kids are treated equally and protected equally.
Every action I take, I will ask myself: Does this make life better for young Americans in Baltimore, Chicago, Detroit, and Ferguson who have really in every way, folks, the same right to live out their dreams as any other child in America? Any other child.
To make life safe for all of our citizens, we must also address the growing threats we face from outside the country.
We are going to defeat the barbarians of ISIS, and we’re going to defeat them fast.
Once again, France is the victim of brutal Islamic terrorism. Men, women, and children viciously mowed down. Lives ruined. Families ripped apart. A nation in mourning.
The damage and devastation that can be inflicted by Islamic radicals has been proven over and over – at the World Trade Center, at an office party in San Bernardino, at the Boston Marathon, and a military recruiting center in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And many, many other locations.
Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted LGBTQ community.
No good. And we’re going to stop it.
As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology. Believe me.
And I have to say as a Republican, it is so nice to hear you cheering for what I just said. Thank you.
To protect us from terrorism, we need to focus on three things.
We must have the best, absolutely the best, gathering of intelligence anywhere in the world. The best.
We must abandon the failed policy of nation- building and regime change that Hillary Clinton pushed in Iraq, in Libya, in Egypt, and in Syria.
Instead, we must work with all of our allies who share our goal of destroying ISIS and stamping out Islamic terrorism and doing it now, doing it quickly. We’re going to win. We’re going to win fast.

This includes working with our greatest ally in the region, the state of Israel.
Recently I have said that NATO was obsolete because it did not properly cover terror and also that many of the member countries were not paying their fair share. As usual, the United States has been picking up the cost.
Shortly thereafter, it was announced that NATO will be setting up a new program in order to combat terrorism – a true step in the right direction.
Lastly, and very importantly, we must immediately suspend immigration from any nation that has been compromised by terrorism until such time as proven vetting mechanisms have been put in place. We don’t want them in our country.
My opponent has called for a radical 550% increase in Syrian — think of this, this is not believable, but this is what’s happening — a 550% increase in Syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country already under the leadership of President Obama.
She proposes this despite the fact that there is no way to screen these refugees in order to find out who they are or where they come from.
I only want to admit individuals into our country who will support our values and love our people.
Anyone who endorses violence, hatred or oppression is not welcome in our country and never ever will be.
Decades of record immigration have produced lower wages and higher unemployment for our citizens, especially for African-American and Latino workers. We are going to have an immigration system that works but one that works for the American people.
On Monday, we heard from three parents whose children were killed by illegal immigrants Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden, and my friend, Jamiel Shaw. They’re just three brave representatives of many thousands who have suffered so gravely.

Of all my travels in this country, nothing has affected me more – nothing even close I have to tell you – than the time I have spent with the mothers and fathers who have lost their children to violence spilling across our borders, which we can solve. We have to solve it.
These families have no special interests to represent them. There are no demonstrators to protect them and certainly none to protest on their behalf.
My opponent will never meet with them or share in their pain. Believe me.
Instead, my opponent wants sanctuary cities.
But where was the sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was sanctuary for the children of Mary Ann, Sabine and Jamiel? Where was the sanctuary for all of the other – oh, it’s so sad to even be talking about it because we can solve this problem so quickly. Where was sanctuary for all the other Americans who have been so brutally murdered and who have suffered so, so horribly?
These wounded American families have been alone. But they are not alone any longer.
Tonight, this candidate and the whole nation stand in their corner to support them, to send them our love, and to pledge in their honor that we will save countless more families from suffering and the same awful fate.
We are going to build a great border wall to stop illegal immigration, to stop the gangs and the violence, and to stop the drugs from pouring into our communities.
I have been honored to receive the endorsement of America’s Border Patrol agents and will work directly with them to protect the integrity of our lawful, lawful, lawful immigration system. Lawful.
By ending catch-and-release on the border, we will stop the cycle of human smuggling and violence. Illegal border crossings will go down. We will stop it. It won’t be happening very much anymore. Believe me.
Peace will be restored by enforcing the rules for millions who overstay their visas. Our laws will finally receive the respect that they deserve.
Tonight, I want every American whose demands for immigration security have been denied and every politician who has denied them to listen very, very closely to the words I am about to say:
On Jan. 20th of 2017, the day I take the oath of office, Americans will finally wake up in a country where the laws of the United States are enforced.

We are going to be considerate and compassionate to everyone. But my greatest compassion will be for our own struggling citizens.
My plan is the exact opposite of the radical and dangerous immigration policy of Hillary Clinton.
Americans want relief from uncontrolled immigration, which is what we have now. Communities want relief.
Yet Hillary Clinton is proposing mass amnesty, mass immigration, and mass lawlessness.
Her plan will overwhelm your schools and hospitals, further reduce your jobs and wages, and make it harder for recent immigrants to escape from the tremendous cycle of poverty that they are going through right now and make it almost impossible for them to join the middle class.
I have a different vision for our workers.
It begins with a new fair trade policy that protects our jobs and stands up to countries that cheat — of which there are many.
It’s been a signature message of my campaign from day one, and it will be a signature feature of my presidency from the moment I take the oath of office.
I have made billions of dollars in business making deals. Now I’m going to make our country rich again.
Using the greatest businesspeople in the world, which our country has, I am going to turn our bad trade agreements into great trade agreements.
America has lost nearly-one third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 following the enactment of disastrous trade deals supported by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
Remember, it was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA – one of the worst economic deals ever made by our country, or frankly, any other country. Never ever again.
I am going to bring back our jobs to Ohio and Pennsylvania and New York and Michigan and all of America, and I am not going to let companies move to other countries, firing their employees along the way, without consequence. Not going to happen anymore.
My opponent, on the other hand, has supported virtually every trade agreement that has been destroying our middle class. She supported NAFTA, and she supported China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization – another one of her husband’s colossal mistakes and disasters.

She supported the job-killing trade deal with South Korea.
She supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will not only destroy our manufacturing but it will make America subject to the rulings of foreign governments. And it is not going to happen.
I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers or that diminishes our freedom and our independence. We will never ever sign bad trade deals. America first again. American first.
Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries. No longer will we enter into these massive transactions with many countries that are thousands of pages long and which no one from our country even reads or understands.
We are going to enforce all trade violations against any country that cheats. This includes stopping China’s outrageous theft of intellectual property along with their illegal product dumping and their devastating currency manipulation. They are the greatest that ever came about – they are the greatest currently manipulators ever.
Our horrible trade agreements with China, and many others, will be totally renegotiated. That includes renegotiating NAFTA to get a much better deal for America and we’ll walk away if we don’t get that kind of a deal.
Our country is going to start building and making things again.
Next comes the reform of our tax laws, regulations, and energy rules.
While Hillary Clinton plans a massive – and I mean massive – tax increase, I have proposed the largest tax reduction of any candidate who has run for president this year, Democrat or Republican.
Middle-income Americans and businesses will experience profound relief, and taxes will be greatly simplified for everyone. I mean everyone.
America is one of the highest-taxed nations in the world. Reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. Believe me. It will happen and it will happen fast.
Then we’re going to deal with the issue of regulation – one of the greatest job killers of them all.
Excessive regulation is costing our country as much as $2 trillion a year, and we will end it very, very quickly.
We are going to lift the restrictions on the production of American energy. This will produce more than $20 trillion in job-creating economic activity over the next four decades.
My opponent, on the other hand, wants to put the great miners and the great steelworkers of our country out of work and out of business. That will never happen with Donald J. Trump as president.
…

Our steelworkers and are miners are going back to work again.
With these new economic policies, trillions and trillions of dollars will start flowing into our country. This new wealth will improve the quality of life for all Americans.
We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, and the railways of tomorrow. This, in turn, will create millions of more jobs.
We will rescue kids from failing schools by helping their parents send them to a safe school of their choice.
My opponent would rather protect bureaucrats than serve American children. And that’s what she’s doing and that’s what she’s done.
We will repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. You will be able to choose your own doctor again.
And we will fix TSA at the airports, which is a total disaster. Thank you.
We’re going to work with all of our students who are drowning in debt to take the pressure off these young people just starting out in their adult lives. Tremendous problem.
We will completely rebuild our depleted military. And the countries that we protecting at a massive cost to us will be asked to pay their fair share.
We will take care of our great veterans like they have never been taken care of before.
My just-released 10-point plan has received tremendous veteran support. We will guarantee those who serve this country will be able to visit the doctor or hospital of their choice without waiting five days on a line and dying.
My opponent dismissed the VA scandal, one more sign of how out of touch she really is.
We are going to ask every department head in government to provide a list of wasteful spending on projects that we can eliminate in my first 100 days.
The politicians have talked about this for years, but I’m going to do it.

We are going to appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold our laws and our Constitution.
A replacement of our beloved Justice Scalia will be a person of similar views, principles, and judicial philosophies. Very important. This will be one of the most important issues decided by this election.
My opponent wants to essentially abolish the Second Amendment.
I, on the other hand, received the early and strong endorsement of the National Rifle Association and will protect the right of all Americans to keep their families safe.
At this moment, I would like to thank the evangelical and religious community because, I’ll tell you what, the support that they’ve given me and I’m not sure I totally deserve it, has been so amazing and it’s had such a big reason for me being here tonight. True, so true.
They have much to contribute to our politics, yet our laws prevent you from speaking your minds from your own pulpits.
An amendment pushed by Lyndon Johnson many years ago threatened religious institutions with a loss of their tax exempt status if they openly advocate their political views. Their voice has been taken away.
I am going to work very hard to repeal that language and to protect free speech for all Americans.
We can accomplish these great things and so much more. All we need to do is start believing in ourselves and in our country again. Start believing.
It is time to show the whole world that America is back – bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
In this journey, I’m so lucky to have at my side, my wife, Melania, and my wonderful children. Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany and Barron. You will always be my greatest source of pride and joy.
And by the way, Melania and Ivanka, did they do a job?

My dad, Fred Trump, was the smartest and hardest working man I ever knew. I wonder sometimes what he’d say if he were here to see this and to see me tonight. It’s because of him that I learned, from my youngest age, to respect the dignity of work and the dignity of working people.
He was a guy most comfortable in the company of bricklayers, carpenters, and electricians, and I have a lot of that in me also. I love those people.
Then there’s my mother, Mary. She was strong but also warm and fair-minded. She was a truly great mother. She was also one of the most honest and charitable people that I have ever known and a great, great judge of character. She could pick them out from anywhere.
To my sisters, Maryanne and Elizabeth, my brother, Robert, and my late brother, Fred, I will always give you my love. You are most special to me.
I have had a truly great life in business.
But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country, to go to work for you. It’s time to deliver a victory for the American people. We don’t win anymore, but we are going to start winning again.
But to do that, we must break free from the petty politics of the past.
America is a nation of believers, dreamers, and strivers that is being led by a group of censors, critics, and cynics.
Remember: All of the people telling you you can’t have the country you want are the same people, that would not stand – I mean they said Trump does not have a chance of being here tonight, not a chance – the same people. We love defeating those people, don’t we? Love it.
No longer can we rely on those same people in the media and politics who, will say anything to keep our rigged system in place. Instead, we must choose to believe in America.
History is watching us now. We don’t have much time but history is watching. It’s waiting to see if we will rise to the occasion, and if we will show the whole world that America is still free and independent and strong.
I am asking for your support tonight so that I can be your champion in the White House. And I will be a champion.

My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word loyalty pledge. It reads: “I’m with her.”
I choose to recite a different pledge. My pledge reads: “I’m with you – the American people.”
I am your voice.
So to every parent who dreams for their child and every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight.
I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you.
To all Americans tonight in all of our cities and in all of our towns, I make this promise.
We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
God bless you and good night! I love you!

…Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona – the state that has a very, very special place in my heart.
I love the people of Arizona, and together, we are going to win the White House in November.
Now, you know, this is where it all began for me. Remember that massive crowd also? So I said, “Let’s go and have some fun tonight. We’re going to Arizona. Okay?”
This will be a little bit different. This won’t be a rally speech, per se. Instead, I’m going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of the greatest challenges facing our country today – illegal immigration.
I’ve just landed having returned from a very important and special meeting with the president of Mexico – a man I like and respect very much and a man who truly loves his country – Mexico.
And by the way, just like I am a man who loves my country – the United States.
We agreed on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns, and people across our border and to put the cartels out of business.
We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American citizens to our two country, my love for the people of Mexico, and the leadership and friendship that we have between Mexico and the United States.
It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation and it will go on for a while and in the end, we’re all going to win – both countries – we’re all going to win.
This is the first of what I expect will be many, many conversations, and in a Trump administration, we’re going to go about creating a new relationship between our two countries. But it’s going to be a fair relationship. We want fairness.
But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership in Washington and we must change it quickly.
Sadly, sadly, there is no other way.
The truth is our immigration system is worse than anybody ever realized.
But the facts aren’t known because the media won’t report on them, the politicians won’t talk about them, and the special interests spend a lot of money trying to cover them up because they are making an absolute fortune. That’s the way it is.

Today, on a very complicated and very difficult subject, you will get the truth.
The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists, and powerful, powerful politicians. It’s all you can do.
Thank you. Thank you.
Let me tell you who it does not serve. It does not serve you, the American people. It doesn’t serve you.
When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean the following: amnesty, open borders, lower wages.
Immigration reform should mean something else entirely. It should mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for American citizens.
But if we’re going to make our immigration system work, then we have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these important and very sensitive issues.
For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people – our forgotten working people – have over immigration and its impact on their jobs, wages, housing, school, tax bills, and general living conditions. These are valid concerns expressed by decent and patriotic citizens from all backgrounds, all over.
We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. Sometimes it’s just not going to work out.
It’s our right as a sovereign nation to choose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish and love us.
Then there’s the issue of security. Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws like they have to be enforced.
I have met with many of the great parents who lost their children to sanctuary cities and open borders. So many people. So many, many people. So sad.
They will be joining me on this stage in a little while, and I look forward to introducing – these are amazing, amazing people.
Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration and the administration that causes this horrible, horrible thought process – it’s called Hillary Clinton.
This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody, and then was released into the U.S. – think of it – into the U.S. community under the policies of the White House, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton.
Weak, weak, weak policies. Weak and foolish policies.
He was released again after the crime and now he’s out there at large.
Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0 – top student in her class one day before her death.
Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open border policy was Grant Ronneback, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk and a really good guy from Mesa, Arizona. A lot of you have known about Grant.

He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary, who had also been released from federal custody. And they knew it was going to happen again.
Another victim is Kate Steinle gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous times and they knew he was no good.
Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. 90-years-old and defenseless.
The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long who did not meet Obama administration’s standards for removal and they knew it was going to happen.
In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran – a great woman according to everybody that knew her, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer.
Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never ever deported despite the fact that everybody wanted him out.
A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens in our prisons and jails together had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names. 25,000.
On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion a year. And this is what we get.
For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next 10 years, we could provide one million at risk students with a school voucher, which so many people are wanting.
While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good people, many, many, this doesn’t change the fact that most illegal immigrants are lower skilled workers with less education who compete directly against vulnerable American workers and that these illegal workers draw much more out from the system than they can ever possibly pay back and they’re hurting a lot of our people that cannot get jobs under any circumstances.
But these facts are never reported. Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing and only one thing – the needs of people living here illegally. In many cases, by the way, they’re treated better than our vets.
Not going to happen anymore, folks. Nov. 8th. Not going to happen anymore.
The truth is the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million illegal immigrants or however many there may be. And honestly, we’ve been hearing that number for years. It’s always 11 million. Our government has no idea. It could be 3 million. It could be 30 million. They have no idea what the number is.
Frankly, our government has no idea what they’re doing on many, many fronts, folks.
But whatever the number that’s never really been the central issue. It will never be a central issue. It doesn’t matter from that standpoint. Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington.

Only the out-of-touch media elites think the biggest problem facing American – you know this, you know this. This is what they talk about – facing American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants who don’t have legal status.
And they also think the biggest thing – and you know this – it’s not nuclear, it’s not ISIS, it’s not Russia, it’s not China, it’s global warming.
To all the politicians, donors, and special interests, hear these words from me and all of you today. There is only one core issue in the immigration debate and that issue is the wellbeing of the American people.
Nothing even comes a close second.
Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears that families will be separated. But she’s not talking about the American families who have been permanently separated from their loved ones because of a preventable homicide, because of a preventable death, because of murder.
No, she’s only talking about families who come here in violation of the law.
We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with great dignity. So important. We will be fair, just, and compassionate to all.
But our greatest compassion must be for our American citizens.
Thank you. President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open borders, and you know it better than anybody right here in Arizona. You know it.
President Obama and Hillary Clinton supports sanctuary cities. They support catch and release on the border. They support visa overstays. They support the release of dangerous, dangerous, dangerous criminals from detention. And they support unconstitutional executive amnesty.
Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security, and Medicare for illegal immigrants breaking the federal budget.
On top of that, she promises uncontrolled, low skill immigration that continues to reduce jobs and wages for American workers and especially for African-American and Hispanic workers within our country, our citizens.
Most incredibly, because to me this is unbelievable, we have no idea who these people are, where they come from. I always say Trojan Horse. Watch what’s going to happen folks. It’s not going to be pretty.
This includes her plan to bring in 620,000 new refugees from Syria and that region over a short period of time.
And even yesterday when you were watching the news, you saw thousands and thousands of people coming in from Syria. What is wrong with our politicians, our leaders if we can call them that? What the hell are we doing?

Hard to believe. Hard to believe.
Now that you’ve heard about Hillary Clinton’s plan about which she has not answered a single question.
Let me tell you about my plan. And you’d notice all the time for weeks and weeks they’re debating my plan – debating and talking about it. What about this? What about that?
They never even mentioned her plan on immigration because she doesn’t want to get into the quagmire. It’s a tough one. She doesn’t know what she’s doing except for open borders and let everybody come in and destroy our country by the way.
While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan was crafted with the input from federal immigration officers – very great people – among the top immigration experts anywhere in this country who represent workers not corporations. Very important to us.
I’ve also worked with lawmakers who’ve led on this issue on behalf of American citizens for many years.
And most importantly, I’ve met with the people directly impacted by these policies. So important.
Number one, are you ready? Are you ready? We will build a great wall along the southern border. And Mexico will pay for the wall. 100%. They don’t know it yet but they’re going to pay for the wall. And they’re great people and great leaders but they’re going to pay for the wall.
On day one, we will begin working on an impenetrable, physical tall powerful beautiful southern border wall.
We will use the best technology including above and below ground sensors – that’s the tunnels. Remember that. Above and below. Above and below ground sensors. Towers, aerial surveillance, and manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels, and keep out criminal cartels.
And Mexico, you know that, will work with us. I really believe it. Mexico will work with us. I absolutely believe it and especially after meeting with their wonderful, wonderful president today, I really believe they want to solve this problem along with us and I’m sure they will.
Number two, we are going to end catch and release. We catch them – “Oh, go ahead.” We catch them – “Go ahead.”
Under my administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border will be detained until they are removed out of our country and back to the country from which they came.
And they’ll be brought great distances. We’re not dropping them off right across. They learned that. President Eisenhower, they’d drop them across right across and they’d come back and across. Then when they flew them to a long distance, all of a sudden that was the end.
We will take them great distances, but we will take them to the country where they came from. Okay?
Number three, number three, this is the one I think it’s so great. It’s hard to believe people don’t even talk about it. Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. Zero. Zero! Zero!

They don’t come in here. They don’t come in here.
According to federal data, there are at least 2 million – 2 million, think of it – criminal aliens now inside of our country. Two million people criminal aliens.
We will begin moving them out day one as soon as I take office – day one – in joint operations with local, state, and federal law enforcement.
Now, just so you understand, the police, who we all respect – say hello to the police. Boy, they don’t get the credit they deserve, I’ll tell you. They’re great people. But the police and law enforcement, they know who these people are. They live with these people. They get mocked by these people. They can’t do anything about these people and they want to. They know who these people are. Day one, my first hour in office, those people are gone.
And you can call it deport if you want. The press doesn’t like that term. You can call it whatever the hell you want. They’re gone.
Beyond the 2 million and there are vast numbers of additional criminal illegal immigrants who have fled but their days have run out in this country. The crime will stop. They’re going to be gone. It will be over. They’re going out. They’re going out fast.
Moving forward, we will issue detainers for illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime whatsoever and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings if we even have to do that.
We will terminate the Obama administration’s deadly – and it is deadly – non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets, walk around, do whatever they want to do, crime all over the place. That’s over. That’s over, folks. That’s over.
Since 2013 alone, the Obama administration has allowed 300,000 criminal aliens to return back into United States communities. These are individuals encountered or identified by ICE but who were not detained or processed for deportation because it wouldn’t have been politically correct.
My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions to remove criminal aliens immediately.
We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities Program. Good program. We will expand and revitalize the popular 287 G Partnerships which will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens in local jails that we don’t even know about.
Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted by this administration and those were programs that worked.
This is yet one more area where we are headed in a totally opposite direction. There’s no common sense. There’s no brain power in our administration by our leader or our leaders. None. None. None. None.
On my first day in office, I am also going to ask Congress to pass Kate’s Law named for Kate Steinle to ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal re-entry receives strong mandatory minimum sentences. Strong. And then we’d get them out.

Another reform I’m proposing is to pass this piece of legislation named for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, two law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously deported illegal immigrant.
The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants and terrorists are swiftly, really swiftly identified and removed. And they will go fast. Believe me, they’re going to go fast.
We’re going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers.
Within ICE, I am going to create a new special deportation task force focused on identifying and quickly removing the most dangerous criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice just like Hillary Clinton has evaded justice. Okay?
Maybe they’ll be able to deport her.
The local police who know every one of these criminals and they know each and everyone by name, by crime, where they live. They will work so fast and our local police will be so happy that they don’t have to be abused by these thugs anymore.
There’s no great mystery to it. They’ve put up with it for years and now finally we will turn the tables and law enforcement and our police will be allowed to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess.
We’re also going to hire 5,000 more border patrol agents who gave me their endorsement. 16,500 gave me their endorsement. And put more of them on the border instead of behind desks, which is good.
We will expand the number of border patrol stations significantly.
I’ve had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement officers and I want to take a moment to thank them – what they do is incredible.
And getting their endorsement means so much to me. More to me really than I can say. Means so much. First time they’ve ever endorsed a presidential candidate.
Number four, block funding for sanctuary cities. We block the funding. No more funding. We will end the sanctuary cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths.
Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist federal authorities.
Number five, cancel unconstitutional executive orders and enforce all immigration laws.
We will immediately terminate President Obama’s two executive illegal amnesties in which he defied federal law and the constitution to give amnesty to approximately 5 million illegal immigrants. Five million.
And how about all the millions that are waiting on line going through the process legally? So unfair.
Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty programs, including the 2014 amnesty, which has been blocked by the United States Supreme Court. Great.

Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive amnesty. And by the way, folks, she will be a disaster for our country. A disaster in so many other ways.
And don’t forget the Supreme Court of the United States. Don’t forget that when you go to vote on Nov. 8th.
And don’t forget your Second Amendment.
And don’t forget the repeal and replacement of Obamacare.
And don’t forget building up our depleted military.
And don’t forget taking care of our vets. Don’t forget our vets. They have been forgotten.
Clinton’s plan would trigger a constitutional crisis unlike almost anything we have ever seen before.
In effect, she would be abolishing the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws from the Oval Office. And you see what bad judgment she has. She has seriously bad judgment.
Can you imagine?
In a Trump administration, all immigration laws will be enforced. Will be enforced.
As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities but unlike this administration no one will be immune or exempt from enforcement.
And ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed to do their jobs the way their jobs are supposed to be done.
Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation. That is what it means to have laws and to have a country. Otherwise, we don’t have a country.
Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges. That is, relying on public welfare or straining the safety net along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who’ve come here under this current corrupt administration.
Number six, we are going to suspend the issuance of visas to any place where adequate screening cannot occur.
According to data provided by the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at least 380 foreign born individuals were convicted in terror cases inside the United States.
And even right now, the largest number of people are under investigation for exactly this that we’ve ever had in the history of our country.
Our country is a mess. We don’t even know what to look for anymore folks. Our country has to straighten out and we have to straighten out fast.
The number is likely higher, but the administration refuses to provide this information even to Congress.
As soon as I enter office, I am going to ask the Department of State, which has been brutalized by Hillary Clinton. Brutalized. Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put in place.
I call it extreme vetting. Right? Extreme vetting. I want extreme. It’s going to be so tough. And if somebody comes in, that’s fine. But they’re going to be good. It’s extreme.
And if people don’t like it, we got to have a country, folks. Got to have a country.

Countries from which immigration will be suspended would include places like Syria and Libya.
And we are going to stop the tens of thousands of people coming in from Syria. We have no idea who they are, where they come from. There’s no documentation. There’s no paperwork. It’s going to end badly, folks. It’s going to end very, very badly.
For the price of resettling one refugee in the United States, 12 could be resettled in a safe zone in their home region, which I agree with 100%. We have to build safe zones. And we’ll get the money from the Gulf States.
We don’t want to put up the money. We owe almost $20 trillion. Double since Obama took office our national debt.
But we will get the money from Gulf States and others. We’ll supervise it. We’ll build safe zones, which is something that I think all of us want to see.
Another reform involves new screening tests for all applicants. That include – and this is so important especially if you get the right people and we will get the right people – an ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values and love our people.
Thank you. We’re very proud of our country. Aren’t we?
With all it’s going through, we’re very proud of our country.
For instance, in the last five years, we’ve admitted nearly 100,000 immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan and these two countries, according to Pew Research, a majority of residents say that the barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or sometimes justified. That’s what they say. That’s what they say – they’re justified. Right? And we’re admitting them to our country.
Applicants will be asked about their views about honor killings, about respect for women and gays and minorities, attitudes on radical Islam, which our president refuses to say, and many other topics as part of this vetting procedure.
And if we have the right people doing it, believe me, very, very few will slip through the cracks. Hopefully none.
Number seven, we will ensure that other countries take their people back when we order them deported.
There are at least 23 countries that refused to take their people back after they’ve been ordered to leave the United States, including large numbers of violent criminals. They won’t take them back so we say, “Okay, we’ll keep them.” Not going to happen with me, folks. Not going to happen with me.
Due to a Supreme Court decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law enforcement officers have to release them into your communities.
And by the way, the results are horrific. Horrific.
There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick’s tragic death in Connecticut just last year.
Yet, despite the existence of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas to these countries, Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance. And they would comply if we would act properly. In other words, if we had leaders that knew what they were doing, which we don’t.
The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands and thousands of dangerous criminal aliens who should have been sent home to their countries. Instead we have them all over the place. Probably a couple in this room as a matter of fact. But I hope not.

According to a report from the Boston Globe, from the year 2008 through 2014, nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into U.S. communities because their home countries would not under any circumstances take them back.
Hard to believe with the power we have. Hard to believe. We’re like the big bully that keeps getting beat up. Do you ever see that? The big bully that keeps getting beat up.
These 13,000 releases occur on Hillary Clinton’s watch. She had the power and the duty to stop it cold and she decided she would not do it.
And Arizona knows better than most exactly what I’m talking about.
Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual assaults, and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable.
The Boston Globe writes that a Globe review of 323 criminals released in New England from 2008 to 2012 found that as many as 30% committed new offenses, including rape, attempted murder, and child molestation. We take them. We take them.
Number eight, we will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system, which we need desperately.
For years, Congress has required biometric entry-exit visa tracking systems but it has never been completed. The politicians are all talk, no action. Never happens. Never happens.
Hillary Clinton – all talk. Unfortunately, when there is action, it’s always the wrong decision. Do you ever notice?
In my administration, we will ensure that this system is in place. And I will tell you, it will be on land, it will be on sea, it will be in air. We will have a proper tracking system.
Approximately half of new illegal immigrants came on temporary visas and then never ever left. Why should they? Nobody’s telling them to leave. Stay as long as you want. We’ll take care of you.
Beyond violating our laws, visa overstays pose – and they really are a big problem – pose a substantial threat to national security.
The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking system should be a high priority and would have assisted law enforcement and intelligence officials in August and September 2001 in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in the United States on expired visas. And you know what that would have meant. What that could have meant. Wouldn’t that have been wonderful, right? What that could have meant.
Last year alone, nearly half a million individuals overstayed their temporary visas. Removing visa overstays will be a top priority of my administration.
If people around the world believe they can just come on a temporary visa and never ever leave, the Obama-Clinton policy – that’s what it is – then we have a completely open border and we no longer have a country.
We must send a message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced.
Number nine, we will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet. We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law, and we will work with Congress to strengthen and expand its use across the country.
Immigration law doesn’t exist for the purpose of keeping criminals out. It exists to protect all aspects of American life – the work site, the welfare office, the education system, and everything else. That is why immigration limits are established in the first place.
If we only enforce the laws against crime, then we have an open border to the entire world. We will enforce all of our immigration laws.
And the same goes for government benefits.

The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that 62% of households headed by illegal immigrants use some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs like food stamps or housing assistance. Tremendous cost, by the way, to our country. Tremendous cost.
This directly violates the federal-public charge law designed to protect the United States Treasury. Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for immediate removal.
Number 10, we will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers – the forgotten people, workers. We’re going to take care of our workers.
And by the way, we’re going to make great trade deals. We’re going to renegotiate trade deals. We’re going to bring our jobs back home. We’re going to bring our jobs back home. We have the most incompetently worked trade deals ever negotiated probably in the history of the world and that starts with NAFTA. And now they want to go TPP – one of the great disasters.
We’re going to bring our jobs back home and if companies want to leave Arizona and if they want to leave other states, there’s going to be a lot of trouble for them. It’s not going to be so easy. There will be consequence. Remember that. There will be consequence.
They’re not going to be leaving, go to another country, make the product, sell it into the United States, and all we end up with is no taxes and total unemployment. It’s not going to happen. There will be consequences.
We’ve admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between 1965 and 2015. Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. So true. But we now have an obligation to them and to their children to control future immigration as we have following – if you think – previous immigration waves. We’ve had some big waves and tremendously positive things have happened. Incredible things have happened.
To ensure assimilation. We want to ensure that it works. Assimilation – an important word. Integration and upward mobility.
Within just a few years, immigration as a share of national population is set to break all historical records.
The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve the following goals to keep immigration levels measured by population share within historical norms, to select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S. society, and their ability to be financially self-sufficient.
We take in anybody. Come on in anybody. Just come on in. Not any more.
You know, folks, it’s called a two-way street. It is a two-way street. Right?
We need a system that serves our needs, not the needs of others.
Remember, under a Trump administration, it’s called America First. Remember that.
To choose immigrants based on merit – merit – skill, and proficiency. Doesn’t that sound nice?
And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first and that in particular African-American and Latino workers who are being shut out in this process so unfairly.
And Hillary Clinton is going to do nothing for the African-American worker, the Latino worker. She’s going to do nothing. Give me your vote she says on Nov. 8th and then she’ll say, “So long. See you in four years.” That’s what it is. She is going to do nothing.

And just look at the past. She’s done nothing. She’s been there for 35 years. She’s done nothing.
And I’d say, “What do you have to lose? Choose me. Watch how good we’re going to do together. Watch.”
You watch.
We want people to come into our country but they have to come into our country legally and properly vetted and in a manner that serves the national interest.
We’ve been living under outdated immigration rules from decades ago. They’re decades and decades old.
To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them to bring them up to date. They’re archaic. They’re ancient.
We wouldn’t put our entire federal budget on autopilot for decades so why should we do the same for the very, very complex subject of immigration?
So let’s now talk about the big picture.
These 10 steps, if vigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished on this issue in the last 50 years. It’s what’s going to happen folks.
Because I am proudly not a politician, because I am not beholden to any special interests, I’ve spent a lot of money on my campaign I’ll tell you. I write those checks. Nobody owns Trump.
I will get this done for you and your family. We’ll do it right. You’ll be proud of our country again. We’ll do it right.
We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above, and when we do, peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail.
Crime will go down. Border crossings will plummet. Gangs will disappear and the gangs are all over the place. And welfare use will decrease.
We will have a peace dividend to spend on rebuilding America, beginning with our American inner cities. We’re going to rebuild them for once and for all.
For those here illegally today who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only – to return home and apply for re-entry like everybody else under the rules of the new legal immigration system that I have outlined above.
Those who have left to seek entry under this new system – and it will be an efficient system – will not be awarded surplus visas but will have to apply for entry under the immigration caps or limits that will be established in the future.
We will break the cycle of amnesty and illegal immigration. We will break the cycle. There will be no amnesty.
Our message to the world will be this: You cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country. Can’t do it.
This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings and illegal overstays very importantly.
People will know that you can’t just smuggle in, hunker down, and wait to be legalized. Not going to work that way. Those days are over.

Importantly, in several years when we have accomplished all of our enforcement and deportation goals and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the construction of a great wall, which we will have built in record time and at a reasonable cost, which you never hear from the government.
And the establishment of our new lawful immigration system, then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those individuals who remain.
That discussion can take place only in an atmosphere in which illegal immigration is a memory of the past, no longer with us, allowing us to weigh the different options available based on the new circumstances at the time.
Right now, however, we are in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border crisis, and a terrorism crisis like never before.
All energies of the federal government and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this time. Immigration security. Cut it off.
Whether it’s dangerous materials being smuggled across the border, terrorists entering on visas, or Americans losing their jobs to foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing and the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton’s answer on her policies will affect Americans and their security.
These are matters of life and death for our country and its people and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton.
And do you notice she doesn’t answer. She didn’t go to Louisiana. She didn’t go to Mexico. She was invited.
She doesn’t have the strength or the stamina to make America great again. Believe me.
What we do know despite the lack of media curiosity is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. Just ask the Border Patrol about Hillary Clinton. You won’t like what you’re hearing.
The result will be millions more illegal immigrants, thousands of more violent horrible crimes, and total chaos and lawlessness. That’s what’s going to happen as sure as you’re standing there.
This election and I believe this is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal immigration, and reform our laws to make your life better. I really believe this is it. This is our last time. Nov. 8th. Nov. 8th. You’ve got to get out and vote on Nov. 8th. It’s our last chance. It’s our last chance and that includes Supreme Court justices and Second Amendment. Remember that.
So I want to remind everyone what we’re fighting for and who we are fighting for. I am going to ask – these are really special people that I’ve gotten to know. I am going to ask all of the Angel Moms to come join me on the stage right now. These are amazing women. These are amazing people.

I’ve become friends with so many but Jamiel Shaw, incredible guy. Lost his son so violently.
Say just a few words about your child.
Angel Mom:
My son, Ronald DeSilva [sp], was murdered April 27, 2002 by an illegal alien who had been previously deported. And what makes me so outraged is that we came here legally. Thank you, Mr. Trump. I totally support you. You have my vote.”
Donald Trump:
You know what? Name your child and come right by. Go ahead.
Angel Mom:
Laura Wilkerson [sp] and my son was Joshua Wilkerson [sp]. He was murdered by an illegal in 2010 and I personally support Mr. Trump for our next president.
Angel Mom:
My name is Ruth Johnston Martin [sp]. My husband was shot by an illegal alien. He fought the good fight but he took his last breadth in 2002. And I support this man who is going to change this country for the better. God bless you.
Angel Mom:
My name is Maureen Maloney [sp] and our son, Matthew Denice, was 23-years-old when he was dragged a quarter of a mile to his death by an illegal alien while horrified witnesses were banging on a truck trying to stop him.
Father:
Our son, Matthew Denice, if Donald Trump were president in 2011, our son Matthew Denice and other Americans would be alive today.
Angel Mom:
My name is Cathy Woods [sp]. My son, Steve, a high school senior 17-years-old went to the beach after a high school football game and a local gang came along – nine members…And all I can say is they murdered him. And if Mr. Trump had been in office then, the border would have been secured and our children would not be dead today.
Angel Mom:
Hi. My name is Brenda Sparks [sp] and my son is named Eric Zapata [sp]. He was raised by a legal immigrant from Honduras only to be murdered by an illegal in 2011. His murderer never did a second in handcuffs or jail. Got away with killing an American. So I’m voting for Trump, and by the way, so is my mother.
Angel Mom:
My name is Dee Engel [sp]. My cousin, Rebecca Ann Johnston [sp], known as Becky, was murdered on Jan. 1, 1989 in North Little Rock, Arkansas. Thank you and if you don’t vote Trump we won’t have a country. Trump all the way.
Angel Mom:
I’m Shannon Estes [sp]. My daughter, Shayley Estes [sp], 22 years old was murdered here in Phoenix last July 24th by a Russian who overstayed his visa. And vote Trump.
Angel Mom:
I’m Mary Anne Mendoza, the mother of Sergeant Brandon Mendoza who was killed in a violent head-on collision May 12, 2014 in Mesa. Thank you. And I want to thank Phoenix for the support you’ve always given me. And I want to tell you what I’m supporting the man who will – who is the only man who’s going to save our country and what we are going to be leaving our children.

Parent:
I’m Steve Ronnebeck, father of Grant Ronnebeck, 21 years old, killed Jan. 22, 2015 by an illegal immigrant who shot him in the face. I truly believe that Mr. Trump is going to change things. He’s going to fight for my family, and he’s going to fight for America.
Donald Trump:
These are amazing people. And I am not asking for their endorsement. I believe – I just think I’ve gotten to know so many of them and many more from our group. But they are incredible people and what they’re going through is incredible and there’s just no reason for it. So, let’s give them a really tremendous hand.
That’s tough stuff, I will tell you. That is tough stuff. Incredible people.
So now is the time for these voices to be heard.
Now is the time for the media to begin asking questions on their behalf.
Now is the time for all of us as one country – Democrat, Republican, liberal, conservative – to band together to deliver justice and safety and security for all Americans. Let’s fix this horrible, horrible problem. It can be fixed quickly.
Let’s secure our border.
Let’s stop the drugs and the crime from pouring into our country.
Let’s protect our Social Security and Medicare.
Let’s get unemployed Americans off of welfare and back to work in their own country.
This has been an incredible evening. We’re going to remember this evening.
Nov. 8th. We have to get everybody – this is such an important state. Nov. 8th. We have to get everybody to go out and vote.
We’re going to bring – thank you. Thank you. We’re going to take our country back, folks. This is a movement. We’re going to take our country back.
Thank you. Thank you.
This is an incredible movement. The world is talking about it. The world is talking about it.
And by the way, if you haven’t been looking at what’s been happening at the polls over the last three or four days, I think you should start looking. You should start looking.
Together, we can save American lives, American jobs, and American futures.
Together, we can save America itself.
Join me in this mission. We’re going to make America great again.
Thank you! I love you! Thank you. God bless you everybody! God bless you!

ISIS rounding-up what it calls the “nation of the cross” – nation of the cross – in a campaign of absolute and total genocide.
We cannot let this evil continue.
Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam – its oppression of women, gays, children, and non-believers – be allowed to reside or spread within our own countries.
We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism, just as we have defeated every threat we have faced at every age and before.
But we will not, remember this, we will not defeat it with closed eyes, or silenced voices. We have a president that doesn’t want to say the words.
Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.
Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.
The rise of ISIS is the direct result of policy decisions made by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton.
Let’s look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009, before the Obama-Clinton administration took over.
Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Egypt was ruled by a secular president and an ally of the United States. Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions.
Fast-forward to today.
What we have – and think of this – and the decisions made by Obama-Clinton group have been absolutely disastrous.
Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other really brave Americans are dead, and ISIS has gained a new base of operations.
Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of territory.
A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States.
In Egypt, terrorists have gained a foothold in the Sinai desert, near the Suez Canal, one of the most essential waterways in the world.
Iraq is in chaos, and ISIS is on the loose.
ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West.
In 2014, ISIS was operating in seven nations. They were in seven nations. Terrible, but that’s what it was.
Today, they are fully operational in 18 countries with aspiring branches in six more, for a total of 24 – and many believe that number is actually 28 to 30 countries. They don’t even know.
The situation is likely worse than the public has any idea.
A new Congressional report reveals that the administration has downplayed the growth of ISIS, with 40% of analysts saying they had experienced efforts to manipulate their findings.
They are trying to make it look much better than it is. It’s bad.
At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and to the United States.
Iran, the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, is now flush with $150 billion in cash released by the United States – plus, if you remember from two weeks ago, another $400 million in actual cash that was obviously used for ransom.
Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons.

In short, the Obama-Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East, and put the nation of Iran – which chants “Death to America” – in a dominant position of regional power and, in fact, aspiring to be a dominant world power.
It all began in 2009 with what has become known as President Obama’s global “Apology Tour”. We all remember. We all remember.
In a series of speeches, President Obama described America as “arrogant, dismissive, derisive” and a “colonial power.” He was describing us.
He informed other countries that he would be speaking up about America’s “past errors.”
He pledged that we would no longer be a “senior partner” that “sought to dictate our terms.”
He lectured CIA officers of the need to acknowledge their mistakes and described Guantanamo Bay as a “rallying cry for our enemies.”
Perhaps no speech was more misguided than President Obama’s speech to the Muslim world delivered in Cairo, Egypt, 2009. I remember it well.
In winning the Cold War, President Ronald Reagan repeatedly touted the superiority of freedom over communism, and called the USSR the “Evil Empire”.
Yet, when President Obama delivered his address in Cairo, no such moral courage could be found or would be found.
Instead of condemning the oppression of women and gays in many Muslim nations, and the systematic violations of human rights, or the financing of global terrorism, President Obama tried to draw an equivalency between our human rights record – and remember this – our human rights and theirs. The records are unbelievable and unmistakable.
His naïve words were followed by even more naïve actions.
The failure to establish a new Status of Forces Agreement in Iraq and the election-driven timetable for withdrawal surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of ISIS – without question.
The failures in Iraq were compounded by Hillary Clinton’s disaster – total disaster – in Libya.
President Obama has since said he regrets and really regrets Libya and the mistake he made. He considers it his worst mistake.
According to then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the invasion of Libya was nearly a split decision, but Hillary Clinton’s forceful advocacy for the intervention was the deciding factor. That’s why we went in.
With one episode of bad judgment after another, Hillary Clinton’s policies launched ISIS onto the world stage.
Yet, as she threw the Middle East into violent turmoil, things turned out really to be not so hot for our world and our country, the Middle East in particular.
The Clintons made almost $60 million in gross income while she was Secretary of State. It is unbelievable.
Incident after incident proves again and again Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment, as said by Bernie Sanders, stability and temperament, and the moral character to lead our nation.
Importantly, she also lacks the mental and physical stamina to take on ISIS, and all of the many adversaries we face – not only in terrorism, but in trade and every other challenge we must confront to turn our great country around.

It is now time for a new approach. Our current strategy of nation-building and regime change is a proven absolute failure. We have created the vacuums that allow terrorism to grow and thrive.
I was an opponent of the Iraq war from the beginning – a major difference between me and my opponent.
Though I was a private citizen, whose personal opinions on such matters were really not sought, I nonetheless publicly expressed my private doubts about the invasion.
I was against, believe me.
Three months before the invasion I said, in an interview with Neil Cavuto, to whom I offer my best wishes for a speedy recovery, that “perhaps we shouldn’t be doing it yet” and that “the economy is a much bigger problem.”
In August of 2004, very early right after the conflict, I made a detailed statement to Esquire magazine in an interview.
Here is the quote in full:
“Look at the war in Iraq and the mess we’re in. I would never have handled it that way.”
This was right after the invasion.
“Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to go and step up and lead the country? C’mon.”
I then continued,”Two minutes after we leave, there’s going to be a revolution, and the meanest, toughest, smartest, most vicious guy, in this case guy, will take over. And he’ll have weapons of mass destruction, which Saddam Hussein did not have.”
“What was the purpose of this whole thing? Hundreds and hundreds of young people killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and no legs? Not to mention, in all fairness, the other side – the tremendous damage done. All those Iraqi kids who’ve been blown to pieces. And it turns out that all of the reasons for the war were blatantly wrong. All of this death and destruction for nothing.”
So I have been clear for a long time that we should not have gone in.
But I have been just as clear in saying what a catastrophic mistake Hillary Clinton and President Obama made with the reckless way in which they pulled out.
After we had made those hard-fought sacrifices and gains, we should have never made such a sudden withdrawal – on a timetable advertised to our enemies. They said we’re moving out. Here’s our time. Here’s our date. Who would do this but an incompetent president?
Al Qaeda in Iraq had been decimated, and Obama and Clinton gave it new life and allowed it to spread all across the world.
By that same token, President Obama and Hillary Clinton should never have attempted to build a democracy in Libya, to push for immediate regime change in Syria, or to support the overthrow of Mubarak in Egypt.
One more point on this: I have long said that we should have kept the oil in Iraq. I said it over and over and over again – another area where my judgment has been proven correct. I just said it so many times, virtually every time I was interviewed. “Keep the oil, keep the oil.”

According to CNN, ISIS made as much as $500 million in oil sales in 2014 alone. That’s before they really got started, fueling and funding its reign of terror.
If we had controlled the oil, like I said we should, we could have prevented the rise of ISIS in Iraq – both by cutting off a major source of funding and through the presence of U.S. forces necessary to safeguard the oil and vital infrastructure products necessary for us to have the oil.
I was saying this constantly and consistently to whoever would listen. I said “Keep the oil, keep the oil, keep the oil. Don’t let somebody else get it.”
If they had listened to me then, we would have had the economic benefits of the oil, which I wanted to use to help take care of the wounded soldiers and families of those who died in the war in addition to which thousands of lives would have been saved.
This proposal, by its very nature, would have left soldiers in place of our assets. We would have had soldiers there guarding this valuable supply of oil.
In the old days, when we won a war, to the victor belonged the spoils. Instead, all we got from Iraq – and our adventures in the Middle East – was death, destruction and tremendous financial loss. But it’s time to put the mistakes of the past behind us, and chart a new course.
If I become president, the era of nation-building will be brought to a very swift and decisive end.
Our new approach, which must be shared by both parties in America, by our allies overseas, and by our friends in the Middle East, must be to halt the spread of radical Islam.
All actions should be oriented around this goal, and any country which shares this goal will be our ally. Very important.
Some don’t share this goal. We cannot always choose our friends, but we can never fail to recognize our enemies.
As president, I will call for an international conference focused on this goal. We will work side-by-side with our friends in the Middle East, including our greatest ally, Israel. We will partner with King Abdullah of Jordan, and President of Egypt, President Sisi, and all others who recognize this ideology of death that must be extinguished.
We will also work closely with NATO on this new mission. I had previously said that NATO was obsolete because it failed to deal adequately with terrorism; since my comments, they have changed their policy and now have a new division focused on terror threats. Very good. Very, very good.
I also believe that we could find common ground with Russia in the fight against ISIS. Wouldn’t that be a good thing? Wouldn’t that be a good thing? They too have much at stake in the outcome in Syria and have had their own battles with Islamic terrorism just as bad as ours. They have a big, big problem in Russia with ISIS.

My administration will aggressively pursue joint and coalition military operations to crush and destroy ISIS, international cooperation to cut off their funding, expanded intelligence sharing, and cyber warfare to disrupt and disable their propaganda and recruiting.
Their recruiting is taking place right now and they’re setting records. It’s gotta be stopped. We cannot allow the Internet to be used as a recruiting tool and for other purposes by our enemy. We must shut down their access to this form of communication, and we must do it immediately. Immediately.
Unlike Hillary Clinton, who has risked so many lives with her careless handling of sensitive information, my administration will not telegraph exactly military plans and what they are.
By the way, what’s happened with her 33,000 emails is an absolute disgrace to the United States of America.
I have often said that the great General Douglas MacArthur and the great General George Patton would be in a state of shock if they were alive today to see the way President Obama and Hillary Clinton try to recklessly announce their every move before it happens – like they did in Iraq – so that the enemy can prepare and adapt. Their enemy says “Thank you.”
The fight will not be limited to ISIS. We will decimate Al Qaeda, and we will seek to starve funding for Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah. So important.
We can use existing UN Security Council resolutions to apply new and even stronger sanctions. Military, cyber, and financial warfare will all be necessary to dismantle Islamic terrorism.
But we must use ideological warfare as well. Very important, and they use it on us better than we have ever even thought of using it on them but that will change.
Just as we won the Cold War, in part, by exposing the evils of communism and the virtues of free markets, so too must we take on the ideology of radical Islam.
While my opponent accepted millions of dollars in foundation donations from countries where being gay is an offense punishable by prison or death, my administration will speak out against the oppression of women, gays and people of different beliefs.
Our administration would be a friend to all moderate Muslim reformers in the Middle East and will amplify their voices.
This includes speaking out against the horrible practice of honor killings, where women are murdered by their relatives for dressing, marrying or acting in a way that violates fundamentalist teachings.
Over 1,000 Pakistani girls are estimated to be the victims of honor killings by their relatives each year.
Recently, a prominent Pakistani social media star was strangled to death by her brother on the charge of dishonoring the family. In his confession, the brother took pride in the murder and said: “Girls are born to stay home and follow traditions.”
Shockingly, this is a practice that has reached our own shores.
One such cases, and many, many cases have happened, the one involves an Iraqi immigrant who was sentenced to 34 years in jail for running over his own daughter claiming she had been “too Westernized.”

To defeat Islamic terrorism, we must also speak out forcefully against a hateful ideology that provides the breeding ground for violence and terrorism to grow. It’s a breeding ground, it’s a terrible, terrible breeding ground.
A new immigration policy is needed immediately and as well.
The common thread linking the major Islamic terrorist attacks that have recently occurred on our soil – 9/11, the Ft. Hood shooting, the Boston bombing, the San Bernardino attack, the Orlando attack – is that they have involved immigrants or the children of immigrants.
Clearly, new screening procedures are needed.
A review by the U.S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee has identified 380 foreign-born individuals charged with terrorism or terrorism-related offenses between 9/11 and 2014, and many more since then.
And this year is a record for identification. It’s gotten worse – far worse.
We also know that ISIS recruits refugees after their entrance into the country – as we have seen with the Somali refugee population in Minnesota.
Beyond terrorism, as we have also seen in France, foreign populations have brought their anti-Semitic attitudes with them.
In Cologne, Germany on New Year’s Eve, we have seen the reports of sexual violence and assault far greater than anybody knows.
Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large numbers of immigrants, extreme views about religion – such as the death penalty and for those who are involved, the death penalty is very, very common if you don’t have the the faith that they demand you have.
A Trump administration will establish a clear principle that will govern all decisions pertaining to immigration, and we will be tough and we will be even extreme.
We should only admit into this country those who share our values and respect our people.
In the Cold War, we had an ideological screening test.
The time is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we face today. I call it extreme vetting. I call it extreme, extreme vetting.
Our country has enough problems, we don’t need more. These are problems like we’ve never had before.
In addition to screening out all members or sympathizers of terrorist groups, we must also screen out any who have hostile attitudes towards our country or its principles – or who believe that Sharia law should supplant American law.
Those who do not believe in our Constitution or who support bigotry and hatred will not be admitted for immigration into our country.
Only those who we expect to flourish in our country – and to embrace a tolerant American society – should be issued visas.
To put these new procedures in place, we will have to temporarily suspend immigration from some of the most dangerous and volatile regions of the world that have a history of exporting terrorism. Not for us, not for us.
As soon as I take office, I will ask the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to identify a list of regions where adequate screening cannot take place. There are many such regions.
We will stop processing visas from those areas until such time as it is deemed safe to resume based on new circumstances or new procedures.

The size of current immigration flows are simply too large to perform adequate screening.
We admit about 100,000 permanent immigrants from the Middle East every year.
Beyond that, we admit hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and visitors from the same regions. Hundreds of thousands.
If we don’t control the numbers, we can’t perform adequate screening. There is no way it can take place.
By contrast, my opponent wants to increase, which is unbelievable no matter who you are, no matter where you come from, wants to increase the flow of Syrian refugees by 550% over what they are now.
The United States Senate Subcommittee on Immigration estimates that Hillary Clinton’s plan would mean roughly 620,000 refugees from all current refugee-sending nations in her first term, assuming no cuts to other refugee programs.
So it could get worse. This would be additional to all other non-refugee immigration. Unbelievable numbers. Unbelievable numbers.
The Subcommittee estimates her plan would impose a lifetime cost of roughly $400 billion when you include the costs of health care, welfare, housing, schooling, and all other entitlement benefits that are excluded from the State Department’s placement figures. Think of this $400 billion.
In short, Hillary Clinton wants to be America’s Angela Merkel.
And you know what a disaster this massive immigration has been to Germany and the people of Germany. Crime has risen to levels that no one thought would they would ever ever see. It is a catastrophe.
We have enough problems in our country; we don’t need more.
Lastly, we will need to restore common sense to our security procedures.
Another common feature of the past attacks that have occurred on our soil is that warning signs were totally ignored.
The 9/11 hijackers had fraud all over their visa applications. Almost every one of them. It said practically in big bold letters, “FRAUD”, and nobody saw it.
The Russians warned us about the Boston bombers here on political asylum, and the attackers were even twice interviewed by the FBI. Very sad.
The female San Bernardino shooter, on her statements and everything that she said. She was here on a fiancé visa, which most people had never heard of, from Saudi Arabia, and she wanted to support very openly jihad online.
These are the people we are taking in.
A neighbor saw suspicious behavior. Bombs on the floor and other things. But didn’t warn authorities because they said they didn’t want to be accused of racial profiling. Now many are dead and many more are gravely wounded.
The shooter in Orlando reportedly celebrated in his classroom after 9/11. He too was interviewed by the FBI. His father, a native of Afghanistan, supported the oppressive Taliban regime and expressed anti-American views very strongly. And by the way, was just seen sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big fat smile on his face all the way through her speech. He obviously liked what she had to say. It’s called weakness, it’s called stupidity, and we’ve had it.

The Ft. Hood Shooter delivered a presentation to a room full of mental health experts before the attacks in which he threw out one red flag after another. He even proclaimed that “we love death more than you love life!” Not good.
These warnings signs were ignored because political correctness has replaced common sense in our society.
That is why one of my first acts as president will be to establish a Commission on Radical Islam, which will include reformist voices in the Muslim community who will hopefully work with us.
We want to build bridges and erase divisions. The goal of the commission will be to identify and explain to the American public the core convictions and beliefs of radical Islam, to identify the warning signs of radicalization, and to expose the networks in our society that support radicalization.
This commission will be used to develop new protocols for local police officers, federal investigators, and immigration screeners.
While I’m at it, we should give a hand to our great police officers and law enforcement officials.
We will also keep open Guantanamo Bay and place a renewed emphasis on human intelligence.
Drone strikes will remain part of our strategy, but we will also seek to capture high-value targets to gain needed information to dismantle their organizations.
Foreign combatants will be tried in military commissions.
Finally, we will pursue aggressive criminal or immigration charges against anyone who lends material support to terrorism. There will be consequences for those people. There will be very serious consequences.
Similar to the effort to take down the mafia, this will be the understood mission of every federal investigator and prosecutor in the country.
To accomplish a goal, you must state a mission – the support networks for radical Islam in this country will be stripped out and removed one by one, viciously if necessary. Viciously if necessary.
Immigration officers will also have their powers restored. Those who are guests in our country that are preaching hate will be asked to return home immediately, and if they don’t do it, we will return them home.
To make America safe again, we must work together again.

Our victory in the Cold War relied on a bipartisan and international consensus. That is what we must have to defeat radical Islamic terrorism.
But just like we couldn’t defeat communism without acknowledging that communism exists – or explaining its horrible evils – we can’t defeat radical Islamic terrorism unless we do the exact same thing.
We have to explain that it exists and explain the difficulties. We have to have a leader that can do that and we don’t have that now.
But this also means we have to promote the exceptional virtues of our own way of life. We have an exceptional country, an exceptional way of life, but it’s being tread on by sick, sick people.
And expecting that as newcomers come into our society, they will likewise have respect and do the same.
Pride in our institutions, our history and our values should be taught by parents and teachers, and impressed upon all of those who come into our society and want to join our society.
Assimilation is not an act of hostility, but an expression of compassion.
Our system of government, and our American culture, is the best in the world and will produce the best outcomes for all who adopt it.
This approach will not only make us safer, but bring us closer together as a country.
Renewing this spirit of Americanism will help heal the divisions in our country of which there are so many.
We have a divider as president. We call him the Great Divider. It’s the thing he does best.
It will do so by emphasizing what we have in common – not what pulls us apart.
This is my pledge to the American people:
As your president, I will be your single greatest champion.
I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally.
We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its many ugly forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
Only this way will we make America great again and safe again – for everyone.
Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.

…It’s great to be with you this afternoon.  
And today, we begin a conversation about how to make America safe again.
In the 20th century, the United States has defeated Fascism, Nazism, and Communism.
Now, a different threat challenges our world – radical Islamic terrorism.
This summer, there has been an ISIS attack launched outside the war zones of the Middle East – hard to believe – every 84 hours.
Here in America, we have seen one brutal attack after another.
13 were murdered and 38 wounded in the assault on Ft. Hood.
The Boston Marathon bombing wounded and maimed 264 people, and ultimately left five dead – including two of our great police officers.
In Chattanooga, Tennessee, five unarmed marines – unbelievable people by the way – were shot and killed at a military recruiting center.
Last December, 14 innocent Americans were gunned down at an office party in San Bernardino; another 22 were very gravely injured.
In June, 49 Americans were executed at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando; another 53 were badly injured. It was the worst mass shooting in our history, and the attack by far the worst on the LGBTQ community.
And I’ll tell you what, we can never ever allow this to happen again.
In Europe – thank you – we have seen the same carnage and bloodshed inflicted upon our closest allies.
In January of 2015, a French satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, was attacked for publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. 12 were killed, including two police officers, and 11 were wounded.
Two days later, four were murdered in a Jewish delicatessen.
In November of 2015, terrorists went on a shooting rampage in Paris that slaughtered 130 people, and wounded another 368 people – some in very, very, very bad shape today.
France is suffering gravely, and the tourism industry is being massively affected in a most negative way.
In March of this year, terrorists detonated a bomb in Brussels airport, killing 32 and injuring 340 people.
This July, in the south of France, an Islamic terrorist turned his truck into an instrument of mass murder, plowing down and killing 85 men, women and children – and wounding 308 people. Terrible. Among the dead were two Americans – a Texas father and his 11-year-old son.
A few weeks ago, in Germany, a refugee armed with an axe wounded five people in a gruesome train attack.
Only days ago, an ISIS killer invaded a Christian church in Normandy, France, forced an 85-year-old priest to his knees – a priest who was beloved – before cutting his throat and just unthinkable other things.
Overseas, ISIS has carried out an absolute atrocity and one after another. Children slaughtered, girls sold into slavery, men and women burned alive. Crucifixions, beheadings and drownings. Ethnic minorities targeted for mass execution. Holy sites desecrated. Christians driven from their homes and hunted for extermination.

Thank you very much. This is a great honor and I am very, very grateful for being here today in front of so many distinguished people.
I’ve met more generals than I’ve ever seen in my life. I like them and they like me. A lot of endorsements I can tell you.
My special gratitude to General [Deborah] Ashenhurst and General [Gus] Hargett, and to each and every one of you. Thank you very much.
The National Guard of the United States has defended this nation at war, kept our citizens safe at home, and rushed into danger wherever it has threatened our people. Our debt to you is eternal.
Yesterday was the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks.
The National Guard was sent to assist in the aid and recovery, and these are serious, serious bad days for our country – he recovery efforts at Ground Zero in New York City. And I was there. I know what you went through.
Since 9/11, there have been 780,000 members of the National Guard deployed overseas, including those with multiple deployments.
Right now 10,000 members of the National Guard are in Iraq, Afghanistan, and many other countries all across the world and doing an unbelievable job.
Members of the National Guard come from all walks of life, work in every kind of job imaginable, and juggle a thousand different challenges as they raise their kids, serve their states, and answer the call of duty for their country.
If I am given the honor to serve as your president, which I think will happen but we’re going soon find out. We hope.
And if it does happen, I will pledge to give you the resources, the equipment, and the support you need and deserve and that you’re not getting.
You will have a true and loyal friend in the White House.
Whether you vote for me, or whether you vote for someone else, I will be your greatest champion. I will not let you down.
I am running to be a president for all Americans, and I’ve been especially humbled to have the support of so many of our men and women in uniform. All Americans, you know what I mean.
All across this country, I’ve met so many incredible members of both our military and law enforcement community.
There’s nothing I’ve enjoyed more than the time I’ve spent with our service members, police officers, and also our firefighters and paramedics. These are incredible people. They embody the goodness and decency of our country.
I was thus deeply shocked and alarmed this Friday to hear my opponent attack, slander, smear, demean these wonderful, amazing people who are supporting our campaign by the millions.

Our support comes from every part of America and every walk of life.
We have the support of cops and soldiers, carpenters and welders, the young and the old, and millions of working class families who just want a better future and a good job.
These were the people Hillary Clinton so viciously demonized.
These were among the countless Americans that Hillary Clinton called deplorable, irredeemable and un-American.
Nobody’s heard anything like this.
She called these patriotic men and women every vile name in the book – she called them racist, sexist, xenophobic, and Islamophobic.
She called half of our supporters a “basket of deplorables” in both a speech and an interview.
She divides people into baskets as though they were objects, not human beings.
Hillary Clinton made these comments at one of her high-dollar fundraisers in Wall Street. She and her wealthy donors all had a good laugh. You heard them. They were laughing. Good, good solid laugh. They were laughing at the very people who pave the roads – and these are the roads that she with all of her security drives on, paint the buildings she speaks in, and importantly all of the other functions. I mean if you think all functions in life, including this auditorium and its maintenance.
Hillary Clinton is an insider, supported by powerful insiders, attacking Americans who have absolutely no political power.
Hillary Clinton spoke with hatred and derision for the people who make this country run.
She spoke with contempt for the people who thanklessly follow the rules, pay their taxes, and scratch out a living for their families. A hard-earned living too.
While Hillary Clinton lives a sequestered life behind gates and walls and guards, she mocks and demeans hardworking Americans who only want their own families to enjoy a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians.
After months of hiding from the press, Hillary Clinton has revealed her true thoughts. That was her true thoughts.
She revealed herself to be a person who looks down on the proud citizens of our country as subjects for her rule. She views it as her rule.
Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led to violation of federal law as Secretary of State, hide and delete her emails. Nobody’s ever done anything like that before. Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress, and sell government favors and access through her foundation.
It’s the same attitude that explains why Hillary Clinton refuses to take accountability for the deadly disasters she helped to create in Iraq, in Syria, and in Libya.

To this day, she won’t take accountability for her role in unleashing – and that’s what happened – unleashing ISIS across the Middle East or for putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons.
And as far as ISIS is concerned, probably unleashing ISIS here. We’d better be very smart, tough, and vigilant or we’re going to have big problems.
Hillary Clinton believes she’s above the law, that she is above accountability, and that she is above each and every one of you.
Our campaign is about giving voice to the voiceless. It’s about representing the forgotten men and women of this country, and they have been forgotten.
I’m here to represent everyone, but especially those who are struggling against injustice and unfairness.
I am running so that the powerful can no longer beat up on the powerless.
I’m running to take on the special interests, the big donors, and the corrupt political insiders. And of course, never forget, the special interests.
I am running to be your voice.
Hillary Clinton is a voice for Wall Street, for hedge fund managers, for the top ten percent, and really the top one percent and even less than that.
Just look at the people funding Hillary Clinton’s campaign and paying for her speeches – tremendous amounts of money – and you know who she will be representing if she ever won, which I don’t believe is going to happen.
In fact, if you look at the recent polls, the ones over the last few days, we’re doing very well. That I can tell you.
The disdain that Hillary Clinton expressed towards millions of decent Americans disqualifies her from public service.
You cannot run for president if you have such contempt in your heart for the American voter and she does.
You can’t lead this nation if you have such a low opinion for its citizens.
Hillary Clinton still hasn’t apologized to those she slandered.
In fact, she hasn’t backed down at all. She’s double downed on her campaign conspiracy and contempt.
If Hillary Clinton will not retract her comments in full, I don’t see how she can credibly campaign any further.
Let’s be clear. These were not off-hand comments from Hillary Clinton. These were…[inaudible]…remarks not at all. They were given also in an interview and probably a number of interviews. These were lengthy, planned and prepared remarks.
It was perhaps that most explicit attack on the American voter ever spoken by a major party presidential nominee. Total disrespect for the people of our country.
Clinton was using a very deliberate page from the Democratic playbook. Smearing someone with one of the names, you know those names, in order, really, in order to scare and I mean try and seriously scare them out of voting for change.
And we’re bringing change. She can’t bring change. She has been doing this for 35 years. She now talks about change. There’s no change.

It’s gonna be more of the same, only worse. It is going to be four more years of Barak Obama, only worse.
She just took it to a whole new level by applying it to tens of millions of people. She used these vile words in order to bully and intimidate honest citizens out of seeking government reform and there will be reform. There has to be reform.
People who want their immigration laws enforced and we have no choice. We have to do it. And their border secured are not racist. They are patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs and families protected.
People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. They’re not. They are decent American citizens who want to uphold current values and keep our country safe.
People who support police and who want crime reduced and stopped are not prejudiced and are not bad people. They are concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is lost and oftentimes killed to preventable violence and it is preventable.
Hillary Clinton doesn’t have to worry about sanctuaries cities or jobs moving overseas – where so many are moving. She is protected from her own policies.
The policies of Hillary Clinton have produced failing schools, shrinking incomes, and the tragic poverty and joblessness in our inner cities. Our inner cities are a disaster.
Our campaign is dedicated to changing these policies to make life better for all Americans.
We are the campaign of school choice.
We are the campaign dedicated to improving economic conditions for every African-American and Hispanic worker. And we are doing amazingly well with African-American and Hispanic workers. You’ve been seeing that over the last week.
We are the campaign that will deliver a government of, by, and for the people.
This change agenda includes a new foreign and new military policy.
We are going to put the failed policy of the past, and there are many, behind us, ideally way behind us.
We will empower our generals to do the job they were hired to do, and that begins with defeating and destroying ISIS.
Thank you.

Instead of endless wars, we want a real plan for victory.
We will abandon the policy of reckless regime change favored by my opponent, and we will instead work with our allies to advance the core national security interests of the United States. America first, remember that. America first.
My plan calls for a major rebuilding of the entire military and the elimination of the defense – that we have to do this so quickly. It’s a disaster of the defense sequester. It is a disaster.
Have no choice. It is a disaster. It’s called depletion. We have been depleted as a military. We can’t let that happen. The greatest men and women one earth, but we have been depleted by what’s taken place.
In this rebuilding, we will provide our National Guard with the best modern state-of-the-art equipment in the world. Bar none.
The National Guard is often the first and the last line of defense for our people.
You’re there when the hurricanes and floods and tornados strike. Always amazes me. The courage, the care, the love that you give. Amazing. And the danger is beyond belief.
You’re there to protect civilians in times of unrest. You’re there to respond to every natural disaster.
You deserve a government that recognizes and honors your contribution and that ensures you have the resources you need to get the job done and to get the job done right.
In a Trump administration, the National Guard will always have a direct line to the Oval Office and I mean direct.
You will have an administration that never loses sight of the vital contribution you make each and every day.
You will have a president who supports, promotes, and speaks up for the National Guard at every single turn.
The incredible members of the National Guard have sacrificed life and limb for our freedom, our safety, and our country.
We will never forget our heroes, their families and the ones they’ve left behind. Our gratitude is and will be everlasting.
We will protect those who protect us and we will follow your example of unity working in common purpose and for a common cause.
We will be one people under one God saluting one American flag.
We will rebuild our military and our country. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we together will make America great again.
Thank you very much everybody. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody.

…Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It’s a great honor to be with you and we had some really incredible things happen today.
The polls are coming out. We’re leading in so many polls. I can’t tell you, I don’t where to begin. But that’s a good feeling.
I guess, CNN just came out. We’re leading nationwide with CNN. We’re leading in Ohio and we’re leading in, I think, it just came out, we’re leading in North Carolina, Florida. We’re leading and we’re having a lot of fun. We’re having a lot of fun on the campaign and on the trail.
I just wanted to say that there’s always a lot of fun when you come up and the people don’t have the teleprompter working but that’s okay. Lucky I brought some notes.
But today, I do want to outline a plan for American economic revival, and it’s a bold and ambitious and forward-looking plan to massively increase jobs, wages, income and opportunities for the people of our country – great people of our country – I will tell you.
My plan will embrace the truth that people flourish under a minimum government burden and will tap into the incredible unrealized potential of our workers and their dreams.
Right now, 92 million Americans are on the sideline outside of the workforce, and they’re not a part of our economy. It’s a silent nation of jobless Americans.
And look no further and I mean, no further.
All you have to do is look at Flint, where I spent a lot of time. The city of Flint and what a disaster has taken place.
The jobs have been stripped from the community and its infrastructure has totally collapsed.
In 1970, there were more than 80,000 people in Flint working for General Motors. Today, it’s less than $8,000. We have 8,000 people and that’s going down and they’re making very, very little. And people are trying to go down to that $8,000 mark.
What we’re doing is, Ford has announced just yesterday, that they’re moving their small car production facilities to Mexico.
And I’ve been talking about this a long while and I think that’s maybe one of the reasons that we’re doing so well in Ohio and Michigan and lots of other places where cars and parts are involved.
But to think that Ford is moving its small car division is a disgrace. It’s disgraceful. It’s disgraceful that our politicians allow them to get away with it. Really is.
It used to be cars were made in Flint and you couldn’t drink the water in Mexico. Now, cars are made in Mexico and you can’t drink the water in Flint.
But we’re going to turn this around.
My economic plan rejects the cynicism that says our labor force will keep declining, that our jobs will keep leaving and that our economy can never grow as it did once before. And boy, oh boy, did it used to grow.
We reject the pessimism that says our standard of living can no longer rise and that’s all there is really left to divide because frankly, we’re looking at an economy now of no growth and redistribution of wealth. And that’s not going to work.
Everything that is broken today can be fixed and every failure can be turned into a truly great success.
Just look at the way I just noted into the teleprompter that just went on. Who else could have pulled that off, okay? Who else?
Jobs can stop leaving our country and they will just absolutely start pouring in.

It can happen. Failing schools can become flourishing schools. Crumbling roads and bridges can become gleaming new infrastructure. Inner cities can experience a flood of new jobs and investments. And rising crime can give way to safe and prosperous communities.
All of these things and so much more are possible.
But to accomplish them, we must replace the present policy of globalism which – it’s just taken so many jobs out of our communities and so much wealth out of our countries. And replace it with a new policy of Americanism.
America first, remember that.
Under this American system, every policy decision we make must pass a simple test: Does it create more jobs and better wages for Americans? It’s a test.
If we lower our taxes, remove destructive regulations – and we have to do that – unleash the vast strategy of American energy, and negotiate trade deals that put America first, then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash.
America will truly be the greatest place in the world to invest higher, grow, and to create new jobs, new technologies and entire new industries.
Instead – thank you – instead of driving jobs and welt away, America will become a great magnet for innovation and job creation.
My opponent’s plan rejects this optimism. She offers only more taxing, and her tax increases are unbelievable. More regulating, more spending, and more wealth re-distribution.
A future of slow growth, declining incomes, and dwindling prosperity.
The only people who get rich under Hillary Clinton are the donors and the special interests but bad for our country.
In Hillary Clinton’s America, we have surrendered our status as the world’s great economy. And we have surrendered our middle class to the whims of foreign countries. We take care of them better than we take care of ourselves.
Not one single idea she’s got will create one net American job or create one new dollar of American wealth for our workers.
The only thing she can offer is a welfare check. That’s about it.
Our plan will create paychecks, and they’re going to be great paychecks for millions of people now unemployed or under-employed.
In the course of this campaign, I’ve traveled all across the country, and I’ve met the most amazing people.
Everyday I’ve seen the goodness and character of our country and brave citizens proudly fighting through hard times and difficult circumstances. I have been all over this country, folks, and we have unbelievable people, but they need leadership.
The country needs leadership.
In many parts of our country, the hard times never seem to end.
I’ve visited cities and towns in upstate New York, where half of the jobs have left and moved to Mexico and other countries. The businesses are gone. They’ve been taken away like taking candy from a baby.
Politicians have abandoned these places all over the country. And the people who live there, are just there. No hope.
Worse still, politicians have heaped scorn and disdain on these wonderful Americans.
My opponent described tens of millions of American citizens as “deplorable:” and “irredeemable”, just last week.
So how can Hillary Clinton seek to lead this country when she considers its citizens – tremendous, tremendous numbers of them – beyond redemption?
The hard working people she calls ‘deplorable’, are the most admirable people I know.

They’re cops and soldiers, teachers and firefighters, young and old, moms and dads, blacks and whites, Latinos.
Above everything else, they’re Americans. Some are rich Americans. Some are poor Americans. They’re Americans.
They love their families, they love their country, and they want a better future.
These are the forgotten men and women of our country and they have been forgotten.
People who work hard but don’t have a voice.
I’m running to be their voice and to fight and bring prosperity to every part of this country.
Too many of our leaders have forgotten that it’s their duty to protect the jobs, wages and well-being of American workers before any consideration, before anything. We have to do that.
I’m not running to be the president of the world. I’m running to be president of the United States of America.
And as your president, I will fight for every last American job and every American company, which really a lot of companies in this room I can tell you. We’re going to be fighting for you because you’re bringing the jobs.
We’re a nation that tamed the West, dug out the Panama Canal and won two World Wars, and put a man on the moon.
It’s time to start thinking big once again.
That’s why I believe it’s time to establish a national goal of reaching 4% economic growth.
And my great economists don’t want me to say this but I think we can do better than that. Now, they’re upset. They’ll be very upset. But I think we can do and maybe substantially better than that.
In working with my economic team, we’ve put together a plan that puts us on track to achieve that goal.
Over the next 10 years, our economic team estimates that under our plan, the economy will average 3.5% growth and create a total of 25 million new jobs.
You can visit our website. Just look at the math. It works.
This growth means that our jobs and plans including our child care reforms that Ivanka Trump, my daughter is so involved in. I like her too. Will be completely paid for in combination with proposed budget savings. It will be deficit neutral.
If we reach 4% growth, it will reduce the deficit. It will be accomplished through a complete overhaul of our tax, regulatory, energy, and trade policies.
Right now, under the Obama-Clinton policies, the economy grew only 1.1% last quarter – a number that was shocking to people that do this professionally and for life. It translates into millions of lost jobs and certainly millions of lost good jobs because we don’t have good jobs anymore. Those jobs are gone and going.
This is the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression.
Over the last seven years, the economy grew only 2.1% – the slowest period in 70, 7-0, 70 years.
Had the economy grown under Obama at the same rate as Reagan, it would have meant 10 million more jobs.
Perhaps most shockingly, one in six men aged 18 to 34 are either in jail or out of work.
Meanwhile, another two million Hispanic Americans have been added to the ranks of those in poverty.
On top of it all, the Obama-Clinton policies have doubled the national debt.

It took more than 230 years for the United States to accumulate its first $10 trillion in debt. It took President Obama less than eight years to add another $10 trillion.
Now it would be one thing if that money had been used to completely rebuild our nation, our military, our infrastructure but that didn’t happen.
Instead, the opposite happened.
We doubled our debt and in return, we have dilapidated infrastructure, failing schools, a badly depleted military.
Greatest people on Earth and they have a badly depleted military. Its equipment – old and tired.
And another 14 million people who have left the workforce.
Never has so much money been spent so poorly and so unwisely.
But we’re going to turn that all around and here’s how.
It begins with bold, new tax reform.
Don’t worry, they’re going down, not up, they’re going down. Think you were concerned they’re going up.
As outlined in Detroit, our tax plan will greatly simplify the code and reduce the number of brackets, from seven to three.
The new brackets will be 12%, 25% and 33% but low-income Americans will pay no income tax at all.
In fact, our plan will remove millions and millions of workers from the income tax world entirely so that all of that work that we do in Washington can be discontinued. They’ll pay tax, but they’ll pay tax when they start making a certain amount of income.
By lowering rates, streamlining deductions, and simplifying the process, we will add millions and millions of new jobs.
In addition, because we have strongly capped deductions for the wealthy and close special interest loopholes, the tax relief will be concentrated on the working and middle-class taxpayer. They will receive the biggest benefit and it won’t even be close.
They have been forgotten. We are not going to forget them. They have built our country. We will not forget. This is a working…thank you.
This is a working and middle-class tax relief proposal.
The tax relief for these workers will be expanded by my child care proposals that I have worked on with my daughter, Ivanka.
These proposals are central and a very, very powerful central element of our comprehensive tax reform and economic growth plan.
Families will be able to fully deduct the average cost of child care from their taxes, including stay-at-home parents.
Because this deduction is capped, it will be disproportionately and it will benefit working and middle-class families. Gotta take care of our middle-class families.
The less you make, the larger a share of your income you can exclude from taxation.
Parents will also be able to enroll a tax-free, dependent care saving account for their children or elderly relatives.
Low-income households will benefit from both an expanded earned income tax credit in the form of child care rebates and a matching $500 contribution for their saving account.
A married couple earning $50,000 per year with two children and $8,000 in child care expenses will save 35% from their current tax bill. That’s a tremendous saving and they’ll have a better life.
A married couple earning $75,000 per year with two children and $10,000 in child care expenses will receive a 30% reduction in their tax bill from what they’re paying right now.
By contrast, someone earning $5 million, like the people in this room, will receive virtually no change in their tax bill at all.
One of our greatest job creation measures is going to be our 15% business tax rate, down from the current 35% rate.

A reduction of more than 40%.
I know that’s what you people have been waiting for.
An explosion of new businesses and new jobs will be created.
It will be amazing to watch. You watch and it’ll happen.
We will also allow United States-based manufacturers to fully expense the cost of new plants and equipment. Big, big deal.
On top of that, we will bring back trillions in business wealth, and this is wealth that’s parked overseas.
Nobody knows how much it is. They say it’s $2.5 trillion – I have people that think it’s $5 trillion.
We’ll bring them back and it’ll be taxed only at the rate of 10% instead of 35%. And who would bring it back at thirty-five percent? Obviously nobody because nobody’s doing it.
I think it’s going to be something that will be so phenomenal – far beyond what people even think.
By taxing it at 10% instead of 35%, all of this money will come roaring back into our country and lots of good things will start to happen.
We will turn America into a new magnet for new jobs, and that means jobs in our poorest communities. So important.
And right now, we have companies leaving the country because taxes are too high, but we actually have companies leaving the country to get their money, and that’s a first. Nobody’s ever heard of that one before, but believe me, that’s happened.
Next comes regulations. One of the keys to unlocking growth is scaling back years of disastrous regulations unilaterally imposed by out of control bureaucrats.
Regulations have grown into a massive, job-killing industry, and the regulations industry is one business I will absolutely put to an end day one.
In 2015 alone, federal agencies issued over 3,300 final rules and regulations – up from 2,400 the prior year.
Every year, over-regulation costs our economy $2 trillion a year and reduces household wealth by almost $15,000.
I propose a moratorium on new federal regulations that are not compelled by Congress or public safety.
And I will eliminate all needless and job killing regulations now on the books and there are plenty of them.
This includes eliminating some of our most intrusive regulations like the Waters of the U.S. Rule. It also means scrapping the EPA’s so-called Clean Power Plan, which the government itself estimates will cost $7.2 billion a year. This Obama-Clinton directive will shut down most, if not all, coal-powered electricity plants. I mean, all over the country they’re shutting down.
Remember what Hillary Clinton said. She wants to shut down the miners, just like she wants to shut down the steel mills and shut down the steel workers, and we’re not going to let it happen.
We’re going to put our great miners and our steel workers back to work.
Energy reform is central to our plan as well.
According to Heritage Foundation, by 2030, President Obama’s energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion and reduce incomes by $7,000 per person.
And today you have workers, and I see them all the time and I meet them all the time, and they’re part of this massive group of people that have just come onto this movement. But you have workers making less money today than they made 18 years ago in real wages.
They’re working much harder, oftentimes because of the disastrous Obamacare that we’re going to repeal and replace. Oftentimes, they’re working two jobs. So, they’re working harder, they’re older, and they’re making less.
Like me, I’m working harder than I’ve ever worked also. But, these are minor – nobody cares about that, that’s okay. Who cares about that?!

Hillary Clinton wants to go even further and her plan could cost the economy $5 trillion.
A Trump administration will lift restrictions on all sources of American energy production.
According to the Institute for American Energy Resources, this will increase the GDP by more than $100 billion annually, add over 500,000 new jobs annually, increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years, increase federal, state and local tax revenues by almost $6 trillion over four decades, increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over a 40-year period.
In addition, we will streamline the permitting process for all energy infrastructure projects which are desperately needed, including the billions of dollars and projects held up by President Obama. Currently be held up. They just won’t approve it anything. Creating countless more jobs in the process.
Finally comes trade – the foundation for everything.
America’s annual trade deficit with the world is now almost $800 billion dollars a year.
Who’s negotiating these deals? Anybody in this room negotiating these wonderful deals?
Think of it, we have a trade deficit of almost $800 billion a year.
That’s going to change so fast.
Between World War I and the year 2000, the United States averaged a 3.5% growth rate.
But, after China join the World Trade Organization, our average growth rate has been reduced to only 2%.
Predatory trade practices, product dumping, currency manipulation, which is a big one, and intellectual property theft have taken millions of jobs and trillions of dollars and wealth right out of our country. Right out of our country.
So sad that we allow this to happen. Our incompetent politicians were not watching. And, the ones that were watching were taken care of in some form because this should have never been allowed to have happened.
It is no great secret that many of the special interest funding my opponent’s campaign are the same people profiting from these terrible trade deals. They are terrible. They’re terrible for everybody.
The same so-called experts advising Hillary Clinton are the same people who gave us NAFTA, China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, another disaster, and now, the Transpacific Partnership that they’re pushing so strongly.
The verdict is in. All of the special interests that the media raced, and they just raced to comment and raced to get comment from, have been proven wrong over such a long period of time.
Every, single deal they’ve promoted, every lie, and every prediction has crashed. They just crashed. They’ve been so absolutely wrong and they’ve been so bad for our country.
Our manufacturing base has crumbled. Communities have been hollowed out. Wages have declined and households are making less today than they were in the year 2000.
I’ve proposed a detailed plan to reform our trade policies and bring vast new jobs and wealth to America.
We need our wealth back. We don’t have wealth. We are a debtor nation.
This includes the following steps.
I’m going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements that a foreign country is using to harm our country and our workers.
That’s what’s happening. They’re being harmed. And our country is being harmed.
I will use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses, and I will use our greatest business leaders and finest negotiators. And, I will tell you, some of them are in this room right now. Not all of them, but some.
And, I know who you are.

And, honestly we’re going to be calling on you because we have people negotiating the biggest deals in the world, far bigger than your company deals. Your company deals are like little deals by comparison. It’s true.
You take some of these big companies and you look at some of these trade deals, hate to say it, but your companies are peanuts.
But we’re going to use our best.
Right now, we have political hacks, negotiating the biggest, most important deals in the world.
We’re going to start with NAFTA which is causing so much damage to our country.
We will entirely re-negotiate NAFTA into a deal that will either be a good one for us as a country and for our workers or we will terminate it until a brand new and productive deal can be signed.
We’ll also, and we have to, we’re going to keep America out of Trans-Pacific Partnership unless we can do something that’s phenomenal and I’m not seeing it right now, I can tell you that. I’m not seeing it.
Next, I’m going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China.
And I like China. They’re my tenant. They buy condos all the time. They’re just fine. But you know what? They are a currency manipulator. and we’re going to apply tariffs to any country that devalues its currency to gain an unfair advantage over the United States. They are a manipulator, Grand Master level. We can’t allow it to happen and our people and our representatives and our politicians don’t have even a little clue as to how to play the game.
We have a trade deficit this year with China of approximately $500 billion. What kind of a deal is that? And this has been going on for years – $200 billion, $300 billion, $400 billion for years.
I’m going to instruct the United States Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China.
China’s unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance into the WTO, and I intend to enforce the rules.
And I’m sure we’ll make a deal somewhere along the way but they’re not playing fairly and our politicians don’t understand how to play the game.
If China does not stop its illegal activities including its theft of American trade secrets and intellectual properties, I will apply countervailing duties until China ceases and desists. You know what that means.
Just a single action of enforcing intellectual property rules alone, just alone, would add millions of new American jobs.
According to the United States International Trade Commission, improved protection of America’s – just think of this, improved protection of America’s intellectual property in China would add two million jobs a year within the United States every single year and we do nothing. We allow them to get away with it.
Who can blame them and I don’t blame them at all. If you can get away with it, they’re going to get away with it.
We’re going to stop the outflow of jobs from our country and open a new highway of jobs back into our country.
Here’s how the plan adds up.
We’re proposing a $4.4 trillion tax cut that will score as a $2.6 trillion under dynamic growth models, which is how taxes should be scored.
This includes the child care plan that we announced the other day.
Our economic team has further modeled that the growth induced savings from trade, energy and regulation reform will shave at least another $1.8 trillion off of the remaining debt.
That leaves around $800 billion. This money can all be saved through simple common sense reforms.
If we just save one penny of each federal dollars spent on non-defense and non-entitlement programs, we can save almost $1 trillion over the next decade. One penny. We can all do that.

Save over $1 trillion. Again, this is spending that does not touch defense, because we have to build up our military, which is so terribly depleted. And that does not touch entitlements.
If our plan exceeds to 3.5%, 10-year growth average, then our jobs proposed will actually reduce and start really, strongly reducing the deficit.
Savings will be compounded by the fact that people who are currently receiving unemployment or welfare will finally be able to find jobs.
This is the most pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-family plan put forth perhaps in the history of our country.
This is what our new future will look like.
I’m going to lower your taxes very, very substantially. I’m going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulation. All of these regulations on your business and in your life. I’m going to unleash American energy. I’m going to repeal and replace Obamacare. I’m going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.
I’m going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets, who are treated so badly.
In many cases, our vets are treated not nearly as well as people who come into our country illegally. We can’t have it.
I’m going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege.
I’m going to stop illegal immigration and drugs from pouring into our country and totally poisoning our youth and others. A tremendous problem.
And, yes, we will build the wall. The wall will be built.
And, just in case you’re worried who is going to pay for it, Mexico will pay for it. I’m being totally serious about that. Mexico will pay for it.
And you understand, Mexico, by the way we look at the trade deficit we have with Mexico, it’s massive. The wall is peanuts compared to what we’re talking about. Mexico will pay for the wall.
And, I’m going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals, especially NAFTA, and we will only make great trade deals that put the American worker first and put the American worker back to work. That includes our miners and our steelworkers, they’re going back to work.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our airports, schools, hospitals. We’ll rebuild everything.
American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy, harvested from American sources, will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.
We will put new American metal and new American steel into the spine of this country. Jobs will return. Incomes will rise. New factories will come rushing back to our shores.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

I think that. I watch the world, and I look at China and other countries. And if China goes down with GDP to 7% or even 8%, it’s like they’ll have a revolution.
And then what do they do? They start devaluing, devaluing. They do of all sorts of things, and they get it back on track one way or the other.
And I’ve had friends come to me that have been devastated. People that are manufacturers, that are great manufacturers, very successful people, but they’ve become less and less successful because they can’t beat the system. And in this way, too, it’s a rigged system.
And they’re almost doing well and then, boom, there’s a massive devaluation in China or other countries.
And there are plenty of other countries out there. Some are actually hurting China now.
But the fact is that when they have 7% and you see it where they start dropping 7% or 8%, they consider that to be a disaster. And yet we’re stuck at 1%. Probably the real number is 1% but certainly no more than 2%, and we try and learn to live with it. We can’t do that anymore.
So we’re going to unleash a tremendous opportunity that we’re bringing back the trillions of dollars that doesn’t come into this country. And that does really, I said in my remarks that does really bring a lot of companies out. They go to get their money. They leave. Not even because taxes are too high. They leave to get to heir money.
So, we’re going to unleash a lot. We’re going to unleash a lot with the regulations.
I’ll tell you the thing that most surprised me in going around, because I’ve been to, I mean, I’ve been everywhere. I have been working. This started on June 16th. Who knew this was going to happen, right? But it started on June 16 and it’s been an amazing thing.
But what truly amazed me from a business standpoint. I speak to big businesses. The biggest businesses in the world. But I also speak to the small business people and the farmers. If they had their choice between this massive tax cut from 35% down to 15% or regulation relief, they would take almost 100% of the time regulation relief.
The regulations are a disaster. They’re killing people. They’re killing the farmers. They’re killing the energy folks. They’ve killed the mines.
And you know we all believe there’s to be regulation for safety, for environment, for certain reasons. But it is gone so crazy and it’s gotten excessive, but they would take that over taxes.
So, we’re going to unleash a tremendous number of jobs coming in.
Plus, we’re going to have great cutting. Waste, fraud, abuse. But think of that word “waste.”
I mean, with the Penny Plan. Just a penny out of every dollar. Now, I know you can do that very easily. But we have to appoint to head these massive massive agencies you know, if they were companies they’d be, rather large companies, they’d be up there with the biggest . Some would be bigger than any of the other companies.
But you take a penny, a penny, off the dollar and you do that for a number of years and all of sudden really great things start to happen.
In addition to that, we spend a tremendous amount on military, which we’re going to increase. We have no choice.
But we also defend other countries. And those countries are not paying us nearly what they should be paying us. We’re losing tremendous, billions and billions of dollars on defending other people. Some of whom don’t even appreciate the fact that we’re defending them. And many of them don’t pay us. They don’t pay us. They don’t pay us. I say why because you know, they don’t ask. We don’t ask.
So, those countries I’m sure will start to pay for the defense, but it’s a fantastic, it’s a fantastic number. It’s a very, very large, it’s a shocking number. It’s a shocking number.
I will just finish with saying this. I have great respect for Japan. But as you know, we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend Saudi Arabia. We defend South Korea. We have 28,000 soldiers right now South Korea. These are economic behemoths. Behemoths.
These are wealthy countries and when I said they have to pay more, a general came to refute my statement and said, “Doesn’t Mr. Trump know that Japan pays 50% of the cost of its defense?” And I said, “Ah, why don’t they pay 100%?”
The numbers you’re talking about are massive, and when you add it all together, a lot of good things are going to happen.

Donald Trump:
A lot of that has to do with the cutting because we’re going to be cutting costs also. As part of our tax plan, we have to cut costs.
But, I think we’re going to unleash something that’s going to be so amazing and a lot of it’s competition.
You look at Ireland being just about the lowest, a little bit lower. So, we’re not the lowest, but we’re getting down there.
But right now, essentially we’re the highest in the world, certainly of the industrialized countries.
And we set it from a competitor’s standpoint and we added to that, and very importantly added to that the cutting, the cost cutting. And there’s tremendous fat.
You know, it’s interesting when all of us, so many in the room do this, but when we buy companies, we like to buy companies that are poorly run, right? Because we can have so much room to cut. We don’t want to buy a perfectly running machine where we can’t do too much.
Well, we’re not a perfectly running machine. We have tremendous waste, tremendous fraud, tremendous abuse.
Our military orders equipment that frankly, it’s ordered, I say politically motivated. Because they’ll buy equipment that’s not as good as the equipment they want and the equipment they want, that the generals want, is better and it’s less expensive.
We have so many things we can do if we do it properly.
And you know, my whole theme has been,”Make America Great Again.” We’re going to make America great again.

Donald Trump:
…We think and hopefully beyond that eventually with time this is going to work out. Absolutely.
But the big things, in terms of neutrality, is going to be the amount of business that we generate. The fact that companies are no longer going to be leaving.
I mean, you have to look at the list of companies.
I told you just before that Ford Motor Company, this is a massive amount of business they’re taking. Their small cars, all small cars, they’re going to make them in Mexico.
It’s like, you know, it’s a story in a newspaper, but it’s devastating for Michigan and areas of the country that have to go through this.
We’re going to keep our companies here.
Our companies are leaving us because taxes are so high.
Our companies are leaving us because they can’t bring their money back in.
Our companies are leaving us because of regulation. The regulation is so massive that our companies are leaving us.
So, I think we’re going to, number one we’re going to keep companies here. They’re not going to be leaving anymore because now they have a better deal than where they’re looking to go. But importantly, we’re also coupling that with cutting costs. Cutting budgetary costs and lots of costs. There will be many costs that we’re going to be cutting.
And we’re going to be enhanced by certain things like…with the military and the defense of other countries which a lot of people didn’t even know.
I don’t think too many people knew even this room until I started speaking about it a year ago. I don’t think a lot of people knew that we defend, as an example, Germany or Japan.
You pretty much knew South Korea and we’re defending South Korea. You know Saudi Arabia as an example. Saudi Arabia, we know. Lots of wealth. Lots of money.
They don’t pay us very much for what we do.
And you know you could ask yourself, “How long would Saudi Arabia even be there if we weren’t defending them?”
And I think we should defend them, but we have to be compensated properly for that defense. I’m sure they’ll be thrilled to hear that.

Now, there is some areas where you could buy back debt. I don’t know. Somebody put that out. I said buy back debt.
You know this isn’t like you’re building a real estate project and the market crashes and you have your shot at a bank. I love those days, you know? I love that.
Somebody said I’m one of the great in the world at that. I love, you know, I love buying back debt. I love negotiating debt.
But with the United States you’re talking about something beyond a gold standard.
Now the interest is down, but you can buy back, we’re not talking at discount. You can discount. You can do things. But no, the debt of this country is absolutely sacred. Absolutely 100% sacred. You have to do it.

Well, I’d go back to the heads of the various groups agencies, you know, all of the different parcels of government, and I would be putting very, very top people into negotiate. We don’t do that.
Honestly, we put political people in to negotiate. We put people in that gave contributions. We put people in that, you know, work the system. We put people in that shouldn’t be there.
And when you say can you cut 1% off your budget, they look like this is impossible when they are people in this room because I know a couple of them. They’re total killers. I won’t call them out. They hear 1%. They say that I can do it all in one year. I can get it down to 25% in one year. Maybe more.  I say take it easy, just relax.
But there are people in this room that would say that.
So you know when you hear, 1% a year for ten years; that’s a massive difference, 1% a year for ten years.
So, I would really have it done at the level of the group running whatever individual thing within government that their running.  They will be able to do it if we have the right people.  We don’t have the right people.
We have people that shouldn’t be doing what they’re doing.  We have people that have people under them that are far, far more competent than they are.  And those people lose respect for the system when they see what’s coming, and I can’t tell you how strongly I believe this.
The trade deals are so bad.  NAFTA has destroyed our country.  NAFTA has destroyed the manufacturing leg of our country.
You look at places like upstate New York where they lost 40% of their manufacturing.  And they’re going to lose a lot more before it’s done.
Don’t forget, Hillary Clinton’s said when she was running for the Senate that she’s going to bring jobs back to New York.  She meant New York but Upstate New York.  Upstate New York, out on Long Island.  You look at things that are happening and it’s unbelievable.  Building after building that’s empty. She didn’t bring anything. They left. They all left.
So, when we negotiate great trade deals, and we don’t even including that to a large extent in the numbers that we’re giving you.
But when we take NAFTA and make it a two-way highway not a one way, so that, yes, things go out and we have at least equal and I mean at least because we have a lot of things catching up to do.  They have absolutely stripped this country of its manufacturing jobs and jobs.  And companies have destroyed companies.  Thousands and thousands of companies, millions of jobs.
We’re going to get that back.  We’re going to get that back.
So whenever I talk about tax cutting and I talk about balancing, a big part of that is we’re going to have great trade deals.  He would be a man to negotiate; I think I will put him in charge of China.

…We have the greatest negotiators of the world.  We have to use.
When China enters that negotiation, they come in with 20 people that are the toughest, smartest, meanest. They don’t say, “Good morning. Isn’t it a lovely day? Isn’t it wonderful? How did the Yankees do last night?” There’s no talk. It’s like we get down to business.  Boom!  No games.
We put people in there that don’t know what they’re doing.  Because this is why we have deficits of $500 billion with one country.
We rebuilt China, and I say that with great respect for China. I have a great relationship with China.
They used to tell me before I was running that they can’t – I have many friends from China.  The biggest people, the richest people. They cannot believe what China gets away with.  They said we cannot believe it.
But then when I announced I was running for president, they called, “Oh I didn’t really mean that.”  They didn’t know this was going to happen.
But in the good old days, they would tell me, “We don’t believe that. Your government is stupid.”
But now they deny they’ve ever said that.

Track record, great competence, love of what they’re doing, how they’re getting along with people, references. I mean no different than when you’re running a company how you hire top people. It would be no different.
The government, you need people with heart, also. You know it’s probably the one thing you need in government that they don’t have in business quite as much. But you need some some but not a lot.
But you need people that are truly, truly capable.
And you need, and I think so much has to do with past history. How they’ve done. How’s it all worked at. You understand what I mean by that perhaps better than anybody. And we have to get the best people.
We can longer be so politically correct.
You know we do things today, we’re so politically correct. People are afraid to walk. They’re afraid to talk. They can’t speak. They’re afraid they’re going to say the wrong word and they’ll be shunned from society.
Don’t worry. It only lasts about a week if that happens. It’s not that bad.
But we have to stop being so politically correct.
We need to get the best and the finest, and if we don’t, we’ll be in trouble for a long period of time. And maybe never come out of it.
I honestly believe, and I’m not saying this because it’s myself, this is the last time. This going to be the last election we have a chance to make this country great again. To really make it wealthy again. Make it strong again. Make it, you know, all of the things that we want to see. We have to have.
But I really believe this is the most important election that we’ve been involved in, you know, for many many many many years. Many decades. And because it’s going down.
The Supreme Court justices that I told you about before. I mean if they put certain people onto the Supreme Court, our country is going to be a whole different country. We’re going to be a large-scale version Venezuela. We’re going to be a totally different deal, and this is the last chance that, in my opinion, our country has to really get better, to get well.
And I just think this election is so important, not because of me, but because of the ideas. The ideas that we have. The ideas that we need to do what have to do.
But I think it’s going to be a very, very important election and that’s why we’re seeing such enthusiasm.
You know we go make a speech, John, and we have people showing up 25,000 people show up and 30,000 people. And we announced one day.
We had one in Pensacola the other day. We had this massive tens of thousands of people showed up. We announced like a day and a half before this speech on Twitter. We don’t even take ads.
People want to see great things happen for this country. People really love this country. The people of this country really love this country.
Even other countries want to see great things happen because it’s so important.
So, I just think this is going to be the most important election that we’ve had for many, many decades, and I’m not sure you’re going to have second chance at it.

H&R Block would be a disaster, okay? Because we’re simplifying. How about people that go with tax? It’s so complicated. You’d need 180 IQ to understand it.
And people that frankly are making a small amount of money, they have to go and they have their tax return done by people.
And by the way, when they’re done you’ll have 10 different tax people and you’ll have 10 different answers to the same person. The whole thing is crazy.
So that would be one industry that wouldn’t do well.
…So, I can tell you an industry that will do well, and an industry that we can use, I know prices are low now but when prices go up, is the energy industry.
We have amazing people in that industry and they are just being decimated. They are being absolutely decimated. And energy is salt work.
And we found out because of new technology whether it’s fracking or many other things, we’re sitting on top of our land, it’s turned out to be – we have more than just about anybody in the world. Our land has turned out to be so valuable because of what’s underneath.
We have to be careful. We have to be very environmentally sound. That’s very important.
But it’s incredible when you look at what’s happened in the last 5 years. We can be self-sufficient, which we have to be, otherwise we’ll be stuck in the Middle East forever.
And we have to get out of that war. We have to knock out ISIS. I didn’t want to be in that war. But I wasn’t a politician. Nobody really cared. But I didn’t want to be in the war. But we have no choice. The way they got out was bad, to get out so quickly and not leave anybody behind.
ISIS developed. We have to knock out ISIS.
You see the atrocities they committed. Yesterday, I guess it was 22 or 24 people hung from racks of a slaughter house like a slaughter house and then their throats cut. I mean can you imagine this? Nobody has ever heard of things like this before.
And then we talk about water boarding. It’s an incredible thing. No, it’s incredible.
We’re not playing on the same playing field.
But if you look at the atrocities committed just yesterday with the meat hooks, we have no choice but to totally decimate ISIS. We have to do it. We have to do it rapidly. We have no choice.
And then we have to get back to building our country, folks. We have to rebuild the infrastructure of our country. We have to rebuild our country because it’s a mess.

As a real estate person, I always like low interest rates, of course.
But I think what’s going to happen is you’re going to have them until Jan. 1st because Obama wants to go. He wants to play golf. And he wants to leave. He doesn’t want to have any stock market disruptions.
And I think the fed is being totally controlled politically. They’re not raising rates. They’re being controlled politically. I think they’re going to be low. I don’t even know if they’re going to have a raise. They’re going to be low until the end of the year.
I don’t think Obama wants to go out this way. It shouldn’t be working this way. They shouldn’t even be discussing it.
Martin may or may not disagree with me. I think it’s a terrible thing that’s happening. We’re doing it for political. The Fed is very political. They’ve become very political like many other groups in this country. Beyond anything I would’ve thought possible.
So I think you’re going to have low interest rates until the end of the year. Maybe no increase at all. And the market will stay artificially high. And then we’re going to have to see what happens after that. We’re not doing the right job.
With all of that being said, all of my life I like low interest rates. Because I’m doing this, I can’t take advantage of it but that’s okay.
But I will say it’s become, the Fed, in my opinion has become very political. I don’t think they would do.. I really believe if it was a political decision or a right decision they’re going to go with the political decision every single time.

…I’ll read it out for you but I feel very strongly about it. So much can be done and it’s not being done.
They come and they take your vote and then they say we’ll see you in four years. Thanks a lot. We’ll see you in 4 years.
And we’re going to do it differently.
For centuries, the African-American church has been the conscience of our country.
It’s from the pews, pulpits, and Christian teaching of black churches all across the land that the civil rights movements lifted up the soul of our nation.
It’s from these pews that our nation has been inspired toward a better moral character, a deeper concern for mankind, and a spirit of charity and unity that binds us all together.
The African-American faith community has been one of God’s greatest gifts to America and to the American people.
There’s perhaps no action our leaders can take that would do more to heal – and I mean heal – our country and support our people than to provide a greater platform, stronger, greater to the black churches and church goers.
I was in Detroit recently with Bishop Jackson, who is an incredible also, and it was incredible what I saw. The love in that room and I’m not saying the love for me. I’m just saying the love in that room for everybody. And the spirit. Even the song. His wife is a beautiful singer… It was just amazing. I didn’t want to leave.
So it’s great.
You do right every day by your community and your family.
You raise children in the light of God. I will always support your church and defend your right to worship always. I will always be there.
I am here today to listen to your message and I hope my presence here will help and very much help your voice to reach new audiences. It’s going to happen in our country.
And these are people – believe me, there are many people out there that desperately need it.
Church faith is not the past but the present and the future. It is the foundation of progress.
And I pledge to you that if I win. Some people say why if and when. Let’s say if because we have to be realistic. It’s a close race. But if you all go out and vote, we’re going to win.
But I pledge to you we’re going to end the Johnson amendment, which takes away the voice of your pastors, your minister, your great leaders. It takes away their voice. We’re going to end quickly – quickly – the Johnson amendment.
So important. It’s taking away your voice.
Passed in 1954 by a very powerful man, Lyndon Johnson, because he didn’t get along with a certain church, they say, in Houston. Because the pastor was maybe against him, maybe not with him, maybe something was going on.
Shows you the power of Lyndon Johnson. All respect. You have to respect it.  But he had this past that takes away your leaders and your people that you must respect. People like pastor Darrell Scott. He’s not allowed to talk politics. If he does, they take away his tax exemption.
So what they’re doing is they’re silencing your leaders. They’re silencing the people that you want to hear.
It’s not fair because they’re the people I want to hear also.
So we’re going to get rid of the Johnson.
As I campaign all across this nation…I will have an opportunity to lay out my plans for economic change.
I will have a chance to discuss school choice, which is so important, and how to put every American on the ladder to success, meaning a great education and a great job.

But today I just want to let you know that I am here to listen. To you, I’m going to listen, and I’m always going to listen.
It’s a promise that I make. I’m running to be President for all Americans – every single one.
Our nation is too divided.
We talk past each other constantly, not to each other.
And to those who seek office, we do not do enough to step in to the community and learn what is happening and what is going on. They don’t do it. Again, they want your vote and they’re gone.
I’m here today to learn so that we can together remedy injustice in all of its many very unattractive forms.
Our political system has failed the people and works only to enrich itself. I want to reform that system so that it works for you, all of you.
I believe true reform can only come from outside the system, from outside the establishment.
Becoming the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln has been the greatest honor of my life. It’s on his legacy that I hope to build the future of our party.
I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time, one that insures the right to a good education and the right to live in safety and in peace.
It also means the right, so true, so, so unsafe. When you see people being shot in the streets walking to a store with their child, often times, their child being shot for no reason whatsoever, so sad.
It also means the right to have a government that protects our workers and fights for our jobs.
I want to rebuild our country and I want to rebuild our inner cities, it’s time, it’s time.
It breaks my heart to see any American left behind or to see a city like Cleveland that has had so many struggles.
Nothing is more sad than when we sideline young Americans with unfulfilled potential.
You look at somebody like Don King where he’s become so successful. He just broke that system. He wouldn’t take no. I mean he’s an amazing inspiration to so many people, including me.
Our whole country loses out. We’re one nation, and when any one hurts, we all hurt together. That’s the way it is. That’s the way it should be too.
We are all brothers and sisters, and we’re all created, all everyone, created by the same God.
We must love each other and support each other, and we’re all in this together.
I fully understand that the African-American community has suffered from discrimination and that there are many wrongs that must still be made right.
I want to make America prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic envy of the world, here in Detroit and Baltimore and there’s so many places.
We have so much work to do. Factories everywhere, new roads, new bridges, new schools, new hope. We’re going to bring our jobs back. Our jobs have been taken away by inept politicians that don’t know what they’re doing. Our companies have left and gone to Mexico and other places.
We’re going to bring our jobs back. Believe me. And it’s not even going to be hard.
I have been so greatly blessed in so many ways with no greater blessing than my family. I have a wonderful family.
Nothing would make me happier than to use what I have learned in business and in traveling the world – I have been all over – to bring wealth and prosperity and opportunity to those who have not had these opportunities before.
When I see wages falling – and falling big league – people were making more money 18 years ago in many cases than they’re making today and today they’re working harder. They have two jobs. It’s not supposed to be that way.

I know the hardships this inflicts, and I’m determined to do something about it.
Please know this: For any who are hurting, things are going to turn and turn for the better.
We are going to win again as a country, and we are going to win again for all of our people, not just certain segments of our people, for all of our people.
I want to work with you to renew the bonds of trust between citizens and the bonds of faith that make our nation strong.
America’s been lifted out of many of its most difficult hours through the miracle of faith. And you people understand that very well. Everybody in this room understands, which is one of the reasons you’re here.
Now in these hard times, for our country, let us turn again to our Christian heritage to lift up the soul of our nation.
I am so deeply grateful to be here today, and it’s my prayer that America and the America of tomorrow will be one of unity, togetherness, peace and love. We can do that.
I’d like to conclude with a passage from 1st John Chapter 4: “No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us.” So true.
So pastor, I want to thank you. I want thank the congregation. This has been a really great honor for me and we have some interesting days ahead.
We will have a little debate on Monday night. A couple of you might be watching it. Anybody going to watch it?
And we have a very big election coming up on Nov. 8th, so hopefully you’ll get out and vote.
But again, to the African-American community, to the Hispanic community, to all communities I wanted to just say we’re going to make it right. We’re going to make it great.
Thank you. Thank you, all. Thank you, all.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
We have to have choice. Choice is a must, and we have to end Common Core and bring education local. Common Core is a disaster.
And we’re going to have great education in our country. We don’t have it now. But choice  very important. Very, very important.
And Common Core has to be ended. We’re bringing education local, meaning our loving parents and all of the professionals, we’re going to do it on a local basis not with the bureaucrats.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, one of the ways is places just like this. You see what’s going on in this room.
And you have everybody in this room. You have Asian. You have white. You have black. You have everybody right here. And you see what’s happening.
So the churches are so important and all of our religious institutions.
And the other thing, we have to stop the drugs from pouring in from across the border.
We have a tremendous drug problem in Cleveland, in Ohio, in North Carolina, in South Carolina, and in New Hampshire. There’s a tremendous problem. Heroin. Particular in New Hampshire.
But we are – our country’s being poisoned and it’s pouring in across the southern border. And we are going to stop it, believe me.
You know the border patrol agents are great. 16,500 they endorse us recently. They endorsed Trump. First time they ever endorsed a presidential candidate.
We are going to stop the drugs from poisoning our youth from poisoning our country. It’s just poisoning our youth.

Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, you know it’s not even about a conservative agenda.
You’ve been trying and working in the inner cities with the Democrats for so many years. Sometimes over a hundred years. There are actually communities so and they’re a disaster. The schools, the safety, the jobs, it’s all horrible.
I mean, in some cases they’re less safe than places like Afghanistan. You know, we hear about Afghanistan. Some of the inner cities are less safe.
So, I just tell you this. We are going to make such headway, such a change, and you know they’re not gonna to do it. Because Darrell, they have been doing it for 50, 60 – some were I mean minimum was like 32 I think. There’s one said 32. Unbroken. Unbroken.
And I I say that and some people I told you before some people love it and some people don’t like it that much. What do you have to lose? Can’t get any worse. It really can’t. The inner cities cannot get much worse. Perhaps they can, but not much. And I will fix it.
What do you have to lose? I will fix it. So we’re going to change it.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, we have NAFTA and these agreements – these trade deals are the worst deals anybody ever negotiated.
NAFTA is destroyed country. It’s destroyed our manufacturing. Our manufacturing has gone to Mexico and all these other countries.
And we’re gonna renegotiate those deals and we’re gonna make ‘em either very good and very fair or we’re going to terminate ‘em. We’ll start all over again. Believe me. We’re gonna bring our jobs back. We’re gonna bring our companies back that have left us, fired all their employees. We’re gonna bring ‘em back.
So that will be the thing maybe I originally started on that and illegal immigration. And we have to stop the illegal immigration by the way. We have to stop illegal immigration.
And Hillary Clinton is not in any way, shape, or form capable of doing that.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, I can tell you a number of the ways are by getting you folks – Darrell, all of you and Ben Carson and everybody – totally involved with the communities because right now you don’t have any involvement with Washington. Very little.
And the involvement that you have, which is a Common Core involvement, the involvement that you have is not a good involvement.
We’re gonna be very much involved with the inner cities and we’re gonna create incentives for the inner cities so that the inner cities can grow and produce jobs.
And we’re gonna bring our jobs back from all these countries that have stolen ‘em like we’re a bunch of babies. It’s like candy being taken away from a baby. That’s the way they took it. And we’re not gonna let that happen anymore.
Many of you folks have had great jobs that you don’t have anymore your company is gone. And you’ve never been able to replace that great job you had when you were younger.
And we are going to bring our companies back and we’re gonna bring our jobs back believe me.
It is to a large extent about jobs.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Yes, the answer is yes. You know as a …[inaudible] with yourself. Wow. Beautiful. Beautiful.
You know that question and that response is amazing because I get it in so many places and you’ll hear about these never-Trumpers, who are dying. Right now they’re on a respirator, okay?

Donald Trump:
Because the unity has become incredible.
Just today in the Wall Street Journal – they have an amazing story about – amazing Wall Street Journal story today – about all of the support that we’re getting, and from lots of rich people even. They’re coming in.
You know, these were “never Trump, never Trump, never Trump”, and now, they’re believing.
They see lower taxes. They see cutting the regulations. They see job-creation, which is so important. And it’s really been amazing.
And one of the things that they see, and that you people see, is that it’s so important – the judges.
So, I picked 11 judges very much into the world of the Constitution. Because we have – we have people that in some cases – I think in all cases – that will, the Constitution will have no bearing on their decisions, okay, if somebody else gets it.
And we picked 11, and we’re adding 9 more. We’re going to have a total of 20 people, and I will pick from that group of 20 people. These are 20 outstanding people.
The rest of them – already 11 have been named, we’re adding nine more who are terrific. Very much Federalist Society choices, Heritage and Federalists. And they’re really, really amazing judges.
And I will pick from that group.
And these judges- you know we lost Judge Scalia- and these judges are very much the mold of Judge Scalia.
So, I think it’s very important – so important. So important.
This election, those people and those Republicans that aren’t helping – they should be ashamed of themselves. They should be ashamed of themselves.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, as you know, I’m a tremendous believer in the police and law enforcement because we need that for ourselves. We need that.
And, I’ve already gotten the endorsement from so many different groups. And, they’re great people, great people.
Now, great people – you always have problems. You have somebody in there that either makes a mistake, that’s bad, or that chokes.
I must tell you. I watched the shooting in particular in Tulsa. And that man was hands up. That man went to the car hands up, put his hands on the car. And to me, it looked like he did everything you’re supposed to do.
And he looked like a really good man, and maybe I’m a little clouded because I saw his family talking about him after the fact. So, you get a little bit different image, maybe, but to me he looked like, you know, somebody who was doing what they were asking him to do.
And, this young officer – I don’t know what she was thinking. I don’t know what she was thinking, but I’m very, very troubled by that. I’m very, very troubled by that.
And, we have to very – we have to be very careful.
So, I mean, these things are terrible. In my opinion that was a terrible – a terrible situation.
And, we’ve seen others, we’ve seen others. And, the police are aware of that, too.
By the way, the police are troubled by it, too. They look at it…Now, did she get scared? Was she choking? What happened?
But, maybe people like that, people that choke, maybe they can’t be doing what they’re doing. Okay? They can’t be doing stuff like that.
So, we all respect our police greatly, and they will just have to get better and better and better.
Thank you.

…Well, I just wrote this the other day knowing I’d be here and I mean it from the heart and I’d like to just read it and I think you’ll understand it maybe better than I do in certain ways.
For centuries, the African-American church has been the conscience of our country, so true.
It’s from the pews and pulpits, teachings of black churches all across this land that the civil Rights movement lifted up its soul and lifted up the soul of our nation.
It’s from these pews that our nation has been inspired toward a better moral character and deeper concern for mankind and spirit of charity and unity that binds us all together and we are bound together and I see that today. This has been an amazing day for me.
The African-American faith community has been one of God’s greatest gifts to America and to its people.
There is perhaps no action our leaders can take that would do more to heal our country and support our people than to provide greater platform to the black churches and church goers.
You do right every day by your community and your families. You raise children in the light of God.
And I will always support your church, always and defend your right to worship. So important.
I am here today to listen to your message and I hope my presence here will also help your voice to reach new audiences in our country and many of these audiences desperately need your spirit and your thought, I can tell you that.
Christian faith is not the past but the present and the future. Make it stronger.
And we’ll open it up to great, great, leaders like Pastor Jackson, Bishop Jackson, Dr. Jackson and so many others and so many others actually sitting here.
Darrell Scott, we have, who is phenomenal, who has been with me for so long, so long.
Omarosa, who is also a very nice person, but I don’t want to say that because I’ll destroy her image by saying that. She’s actually a very, very, very fine person and a pastor.
And I just want to thank all of the folks and there is somebody that’s been very special to me, Dr. Ben Carson, whose been, stand up Ben, come here. This is a great man and a great guy.
So as I prepare to campaign all across the nation and in every community, I will have an opportunity to lay out my plans for economic change, which will be so good for Detroit and so good for this community because we are going to bring jobs back. I will have chance to bring them back. Taking them back from Mexico and everywhere else because they’re gone.

I will have chance to discuss school choice. That’s very important. And how to put every American on the ladder of success with a great education and a great job.
But today I just want to let you know that I am here to listen to you and I have been doing that.
We had a fantastic interview with Bishop Jackson. It was really an amazing interview. He’s better than the people who do that professionally.
And I didn’t really know what I was getting myself into. I didn’t know. Is this going to be nice? Is this going to be wild? He is a great gentlemen and a very smart guy.
And I just hope you do not lose him to Hollywood. That’s the only problem. Especially Dr. Jackson. She may be gone. Hollywood is calling. Look at all those television cameras back there. Look at all those television cameras.
I am sorry to do that to you Bishop because you know, one of those things. Right?
Our nation is too divided. We talk past each other, not to each other.
And those who seek office do not do enough to step into the community and learn what is going on. They don’t know. They have no clue.
I am here today to learn so that we can together remedy injustice in any form and so that we can also remedy economics so that the African-American community can benefit economically through jobs and income and so many other different ways.
Our political system has failed the people and works only to enrich itself.
I want to reform that system so that it works for you, everybody in this room.
I believe true reform can only come from outside the system. I really mean that.
Being a business man is much different from being a politician because I understand what is happening, and we are going outside of the establishment.
Becoming the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln – a lot of people do not realize that Abraham Lincoln, the great Abraham Lincoln, was a Republican – has been the greatest honor of my life.
It is on his legacy that I hope to build the future of the party, but more importantly the future of the country and the community.
I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time – one that ensures our rights to a great education; it’s so important, and the right to live in safety and in peace and to have a really, really great job, a good paying job and one that you love to go to every morning. And that can happen. We need to bring our companies back.
It also means the right to have a government that protects our workers and fights, really fights, for our jobs.
I want to help you build and rebuild Detroit. And we can do that, especially with people like Bishop Jackson and Dr. Jackson. It has been an amazing experience. It’s been an amazing experience.
Nothing is more sad than when we sideline young black men with unfulfilled potential, tremendous potential.
I met some people this morning that were incredible people and they looking for jobs. These are incredible people, young people.
Our whole country loses out when we’re unable to harness the brilliance and the energy of these folks.

We’re one nation, and when anyone hurts, we all hurt together, and that’s so true. So true.
We’re all brothers and sisters, and we’re all created by the same God.
We must love each other and support each other. And we are in this all together. All together.
I fully understand that the African-American community has suffered from discrimination and that there are many wrongs that must still be made right. They will be made right.
I want to make America prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic envy of the world. We can do that. We can do that again.
Factories everywhere, new roads and bridges, new schools. Especially schools. And new hope.
I have been so greatly blessed, and in so many ways, with no greater blessing, than my family. I have a great family.
Nothing would make me happier and more fulfilled than to use what I have learned in business and in traveling all over the world. I’ve sort of seen a lot. To bring the wealth and prosperity and opportunity to those to who have not had these opportunities before. And that’s many, many people in Detroit.
When I see wages falling, people out of work, I know the hardships this inflicts. And I am determined to do something it. I will do something about it. I do get things done. I wrote that.
Some people have strengths, that’s one of mine. I get things done. I’ll get things done for you.
Please know this, for any who had heard it. Things are going to turn around. Tomorrow will be better. Be much better.
The pastor and I were talking about riding up the street, and we see all those closed stores, and people sitting down on the sidewalk, and no jobs and no activity.
We’ll get it turned around. We’ll get it turned around, pastor. Believe me.
We’re going to win again as a country. And we’re going to win again for all of our people.
I want to work with you to renew the bonds of trust between citizens. And the bonds of faith that make our nation strong.
America’s been lifted out of many of its most difficult hours through the miracle of faith and through people like Bishop Jackson and Dr. Jackson. So important. People have no idea how important they are.
Now in these hard times for our country, let us turn again to our Christian heritage to lift up the soul of our nation.
I am so deeply grateful to be here today.
And it is my prayer that America, of tomorrow. And I mean that. That the America of tomorrow will be one of unity, togetherness and peace. And perhaps we can add the word, prosperity. Great prosperity.
I’d like to conclude with a passage from 1st John Chapter 4.
You know it. See, most groups I speak to don’t know that. But we know it.
If you want, we can say it together.
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us. And his love is made, complete in us.
And that’s so true.
Thank you very much. This has been such an honor.
Thank you very much.

Thank you everybody, wow. This is great in a hangar, yet, right? In a hangar, boy, oh boy.
It’s a movement like they haven’t seen before.
I must tell you that just before I got off the plane, a bomb went off in New York and nobody knows exactly what’s going on. But boy, we are living in a time. We better get very tough folks, we better get very, very tough. Just happened. So we’ll find out but it’s a terrible thing that’s going on in our world, in our country, and we are going to get tough and smart and vigilant. And we’re going to end it. We’re going to end it. So we’ll see what it is. We’ll see what it is.
In any event, I am so thrilled to be in Colorado – a special place, special, special place. Really special place.
A new poll from Emerson just came out and we’re up four points in Colorado, right? And we haven’t spent any money on advertising yet. That’s even better.
You know, in the old days, if you could be up and have a smaller crew and spend no money, you were considered a genius.
Today, if you don’t spend a lot of money and don’t have a big crew, they say, “Oh, he’s not spending a lot of money”.
But we’re going to spend a lot of money in Colorado because we’re going to take Colorado. We don’t want to take any chances, alright? We don’t want to take any chances.
So, Reuters has just projected a win for us in Florida. We’re going to win in Florida.
And we’re up in Ohio and we’re up in Iowa. We’re up eight points in Iowa. We’re up four or five points in Ohio and amazing people.
You look at what’s going on with our manufacturing being sucked out of our country; we’re not gonna be having have that happen long, folks. Not going to happen for long, believe me.
We’re up in North Carolina. We’re up in many, many polls nationwide.
The Los Angeles Times has up six points nationwide so we’re good. We’re good.
In other words, I think we’re going to win is what I’m saying, right?
You know they call this a movement, and all over, they’re talking about it as a movement.
Bill O’Reilly said one of the great phenomenas he’s ever seen. He’s actually said it’s the greatest political phenomena he’s seen in his lifetime.
But I’ll tell you something, it doesn’t mean anything if we don’t win. We gotta win. We gotta win.
It’s going to be a victory for the people. It’s going to be a victory for you all the way in that corner over there. Boy, we have a lot of people here. This is a big hangar and it’s full. Big hangar, and I appreciate it.
Starting in 2017, anything we dream for our country will be achieved. It’s going to be achieved.
It’s time to start thinking of dreaming big. We don’t dream big anymore in this country. Bigger than all of those petty politicians that don’t have a clue, believe me.
Our plan begins with economic prosperity.
My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words. You know what they are? Jobs, jobs, jobs.
We’re going to have a massive tax reduction – big, big league tax reduction for working and middle class families.
We’re going to reduce – and this is so important – reduce job-killing regulations and raise your incomes way up high.
We’re going to keep our good jobs. We have bad jobs. We are going to get our good jobs back; they’ve been sucked away. We’re going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals.
Now, that doesn’t mean – you know, these press, they are so dishonest. I’m all for trade but we want good deals. We don’t want bad deals.
When I say I’m going renegotiate, they say Trump’s anti-trade. I’m totally for trade but we’re going to have great deals for our country.
We’re going to have job-producing deals, not job-sucking deals, which are getting sucked out of our country.
We’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare.

And you see what’s happening. You see what’s happening.
I mean, look at the numbers. Look at what’s happening with your premiums. They’re going through the roof. Up 20 30 40 50%.
Your deductibles are so high, you’ll never get to use them unless you really, oh, I don’t even like to say it. It’s going to be a long, slow, tragic death. And then maybe you’ll get to use a little tiny piece, but that’s going to be the last thing you’re worried about. Believe me.
We’re going to appoint Supreme Court justices who uphold the Constitution of the United States. So important.
We’re going to work with law enforcement, our police, to stop the surge of violent crime.
We’re going to revitalize our crumbling infrastructure.
We’re going to provide school choice to every disadvantaged child in America of which we have many.
And we’re going, by the way, to end Common Core. We’re bringing our education local.
We’re going to end illegal immigration, and yes, we will build a wall. We’re going to build the wall.
And you know what? They don’t know it yet, but they’re starting to get the idea. And they’re great people and they’re very good leaders. Much smarter than our leaders, believe me. But Mexico will be paying for that wall, okay? They will be paying. We know.
We’re going to keep the terrorists out of our country and apply new screening standards. 100%. To admit people that love our country and want to love our country and people that want to love our people. We’re going to defeat ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.
We’re going to rebuild our badly depleted military. They’re the greatest people on Earth. But we got to build. We have to rebuild our military. It’s depleted.
Our fighters are 18-years-old in some cases. They go out to replace parts. They go to the Aeroplane graveyards to get parts because they don’t make them anymore. They go to museums to take parts off planes. These are fighter jets that we have right now. You’ve seen it.
It is terrible. This is not the United States of America, folks.
And we’re going to remember those three very famous words: Peace through strength. That’s what we’re going to have.
And hopefully we won’t have to use our strength so much, but we need it. Maybe more than ever before.
In all things, it’s going to be America first. America first. You don’t hear that anymore. You don’t hear that anymore.
You go out and you see these trade deals that it looks like we’re doing the deals for other countries.
Correct. Correct. Correct. That is so correct.
In this mission, we are going to campaign in every community in our country.
This is our chance to replace a failed, corrupt, and dishonest political establishment with a new government that answers to the citizens, not to the special interests.
We can’t keep listening to the same people who created all of these problems in the first place.
By the way, Hillary Clinton, we’re not going to listen and we’re not going to take it anymore. We’re going to do what we know we have to do.
That’s why I’m proud and, by the way, when you say that. Let’s just win on Nov. 8th, okay? It’s so simple. Get out, vote, bring everybody.

If you’re feeling horrible, just horrible, if you’re sick, you’re really sick. You can’t get out of bed. I don’t give a you know what. Because if I use that word they’ll say, “He used foul language. It is terrible.” So I won’t even use that word, that starts with a D, right? You know. Not so bad.
I don’t even like using the H word, you know. The place that’s down there. Because if I use that word they’ll say, “He used foul language.”
See? I’ve learned. It’s been a process. I’ve learned.
But that’s why I’m so proud to have the endorsement of the people who actually, on the ground, they’re on the ground. They know what needs to be done. Not the insiders from Washington, D.C. They know what has to be done, too, but they’ll never to it because they’re working for themselves.
I see a mosquito. Right now, I don’t like mosquitos too much, folks. Get out of here you mosquito. I never minded mosquitos. Now, I’m not loving them, I must be honest.
This week I was honored to get the endorsement of 17 recipients of the Medal of Honor and many many of our incredible military leaders.
We now have the endorsement of more than 160 top generals and admirals. That’s a lot.
We also have the support and endorsement of 16,500 border patrol agents. First time they’ve ever endorsed a presidential candidate.
Earlier today, I had a chance to spend some time with victims of illegal immigrant violence. And this is violence.
These are great people of all races and all background. They’re all united by one common fact: their government failed them in its most basic duty.
They just – and I have to tell you, it was so sad and maybe some of you saw it today, it was on television – but, we received the endorsement of the nation’s largest police fraternal order. It’s called the Fraternal Order of Police. And we talked about it this morning.
If you would see these people, who lost their daughters, their sons, their husbands, their wives, to the most violent people, the most violent people, you would say that when I first came out, and I started talking about trade deals and I started talking about energy, but I started talking about illegal immigration, you would say, “Boy oh boy was he right about that.”
And we’re going to stop the crime. We’re going to stop the drugs from pouring across our border and poisoning our youth. And you have the same problem right here. We’re going to stop that problem.
Not only our youth, by the way. Many, many people are being poisoned by what’s pouring across that border. So we’re going to stop it and we’re going to stop it cold.
Last night in Fort Worth, Texas, a newly commissioned officer in training and his field officer were shot while responding to a possible suicide.
Also last night, in Philadelphia, a 19 year police veteran was shot eight times. The police commissioner said it was a miracle that she wasn’t killed. She.
Also, another officer, who formerly served for 33 years in the Philadelphia police department was shot numerous times.
Our prayers are with all of the victims. We must stand with our police. We must.
And I’m so greatly honored to have the support of our local law enforcement and all law enforcement. We have such incredible law enforcement support.
Our men and women in military uniform – unbelievable support. And the support of firefighters. Paramedics. And so many other public servants. We have got support.
I’ll tell you what, folks, I’m looking and I’m seeing every place we go we have crowds like this. Every place.
We just left – we were in Texas, we were in Oklahoma. Every place we go we’re having crowds like this.
There’s something special going on. We’re going to take back the White House. We’re going to take back our country.

Is there any place that’s more fun to be – and look at this, I mean, how beautiful is this than a Trump rally. No place safer– and there’s no place safer, that I can tell you. A lot of love. There’s a lot of love.
I just want to tell you this, and I mean this from the bottom of my heart, it’s Nov. 8th, if we win — not me, we win– I’m the messenger, I’m doing a good job as the messenger, but I’m–
But we all know what has to be done, and we are going to do something special.
And I promise you this: I will never ever let you down. You’re not going to be let down. Not going to be let down.
Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds, and all walks of life.
You’re the brick layers, and the home builders, and the doctors, and the dentists, and the carpenters, and the welders. Young and old; rich and poor; black, white, Hispanic, but above all else, we’re Americans, and that’s the support. We’re Americans.
So you’ve heard this word, and while my opponent, Hillary Clinton, oy– How many years have we been saying this name?
You know, I keep hearing that she wants to do this, she wants to do that– where has she been for 35 years? She’s been doing this. Where has she been?
My opponent slanders you as deplorable, and a word that hasn’t been picked up to the same extent: irredeemable. What means you can’t be made better, or whatever. That means you’re always gonna be deplorable, right? I don’t think so. I don’t think so.
I call you hard-working American patriots, who love your family and love your country, and you want to see it be better.
Hillary Clinton’s comments– and they were angry comments– Did you see her making this? I was watching– I was starting to fall asleep watching, because it’s hard to stay awake, let’s face it. So I’m starting to doze off, and then I heard the word deplorable and I said ‘whoa!’. And irredeemable.
Think of it. But her comments display the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as Secretary of State, hide and delete 33,000 emails.
Think of it, 33,000. But it really had to do with yoga and the wedding.
So what do we do? We give yoga 5 and the wedding 3, where are the rest of them? Destroy her phones — and think of this — with a hammer. Boom. 13 of them. Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress, and sell government favors and access — just sells government favors and access.
It’s the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in the Middle East. What you’re seeing is largely a creation of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
Before she came into office, Libya was stable; Syria was under control, right? You just said it. Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence, and Iran was being totally choked off by sanctions — they were not, they were not gonna make it.
The group we, today — and you see it — today we call ISIS, this is the group that was formed — we call ISIS — and it was close to being extinguished.
Now, after Hillary, here’s what we have: Libya, Syria, and Iraq are in total chaos; Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons and is becoming, not a local power but a world power, so fast– how fast has this taken? They were dying two years ago. Look what’s happened.

And remember the $400 million in cash? Well, that turned out to be wrong! I’m sorry. It turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash.
Now can you imagine, can you imagine the scene of $1.7 billion in cash, different denominations…I mean the whole thing is so…it wasn’t $400 million, it was 1.7 billion!
Who does this? Where are these people coming from?
And now, you look at Iran, and they’re emboldened. They want to shoot down our airplanes.
You see with the little boats going around our ships. You see that? And taunting, they’re taunting. They feel emboldened after all of this.
Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. It’s gonna be so different folks, I promise.
Can you imagine the captain on the destroyer as they keep circling with their little boats? He wants to shoot them out of the water so bad. He was standing there like this, just looking, just looking saying “What is going on? Where have we – where have we come and gone?”
ISIS is spreading everywhere and launching attacks against the West.
Her judgment on the economy is no better.
Hillary’s donors and advisers are the same people who gave us NAFTA – the worst trade deal in the history – not of our country – in the history of our world. There has never been a trade deal as bad as NAFTA anywhere in the world.
You look at upstate New York. You look at New England. You look at Colorado. You look at the manufacturing that’s been ripped out of Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere. And it’s gone to Mexico and other places.
And I tell this story because I have a friend – better than a consultant, he cost me nothing. He is a great guy. He builds plants. And I said to him, “How are you doing?” And he said, “I’m doing unbelievably. We’re building the greatest plants in the world.” “Where?” He said “Mexico”. “What about our country?” “Not so much.”
Okay? It’s gonna change folks. It’s gonna go the opposite. Believe me.
They allowed China the entry into the World Trade Organization. You see where that got us.
And now she wants to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. This will be…she called it the gold standard. This will be a disaster.
Her policies have produced suffering everywhere, but especially in our inner cities.
45% of African-Americans under the age six are living in poverty.
58% of African-American youth are not employed.
More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago since Jan. 1st.
Can you imagine?
By the way, by the way, that’s worse than Afghanistan. That’s worse than these war-torn countries! It’s more dangerous.
The jobs are gone. The schools are failing. The communities are totally unsafe.
And to the African Americans living in those communities, I say vote for Donald Trump. What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?
I will fix it. I will fix it. I’ll bring back your jobs and your security, and I’ll fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought before.
These cities have been run by the policies of Hillary Clinton and her friends. And I’m telling you, they’re only getting worse. They’re getting worse every time.
She wants your vote and then she said “See you, like, in four years.” But hopefully, we’re not gonna be worrying about that.
It is really sad. It is really sad what’s happened to our inner cities. They want your vote, and by the way, the Democrats have run them for 50, 60, 70, even 100 years! Uninterrupted. 100 years, and look what you have.
I will fix it, remember that. I will fix it. What do you have to lose?
Somebody said, oh that’s not a nice thing, what do you have to lose. How could you be any more accurate than that? What do you have to lose?
Everywhere she goes, scandal and failure follow.
Just look at what she did in upstate New York. She promised 200,000 jobs and they ended up losing jobs. Remember? She was running for the Senate. It was a total disaster. She said we’re gonna bring jobs back. It was a total…she didn’t bring anything, we lost jobs!

The only people she delivers for are her donors. I’m going to deliver for the American people, I promise you that.
And I’m spending my money on this race. I’m spending my money. I’ve got a lot of time, energy, and my money invested. That’s for sure.
So that includes lifting the restrictions – we have to do this – on American energy. There’s $50 trillion of untapped energy reserves in our country, and we’re going to unlock that vast potential.
That’s going to be an amazing unlocking, too, believe me.
This one action alone will raise the quality of life for tens of millions of Americans.
We’ll be a rich country again. We’ll start paying off our debt. We’ll lower your taxes. It’s going to be a very beautiful thing to watch.
We’re also going to complete reform our trade deals.
Ford, Ford Motor Company, just announced they’re moving all of their small car division. They’re moving. Where are they moving? They’re moving to Mexico. This won’t happen if I’m elected President, believe me.
People are not going to be stealing our companies, and we’re not going to be losing our jobs.
And if somebody like Ford or Carrier or all of these thousands of companies that are moving. If they think they’re going to move, fire all of their employees, so we get unemployment or we get no tax. They’re going to make product and brand new plants in another country, sell it into our country against – and remember this, it will now be crossing a very very strong border. Very strong. We’re going to charge them a 35% tax on their product.
And you know what they’re going to say? They’re going to say, “We’re not moving because if we have to do that, it no longer makes sense to move.”
And the politicians could have done it. They could have done it. They don’t want to do it because they’re controlled by special interests, folks. It’s very simple.
Meanwhile, if we just stopped China from stealing our intellectual property alone, we’d save two million jobs a year. We don’t even talk to China about it.
Right now, our trade deficit in goods all over the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Think of it. Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals?
We have a trade deficit of $800 billion a year. And then they say I’m against trade. Well, I’m against deals like that, I can tell you. You’re better off without them.
This subtracts from our GDP. Our economy grew only 1.1% in the last quarter, and that’s a catastrophe.
If China goes down to 7 or 8 % it’s like a national emergency. We have 1.1%. It’s pathetic.
This is the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression. Another 14 million people have left the workforce and, entirely, it all came in entirely, since President Obama came into office.
Another major reform is going to be school choice.
I’ve outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America to chose the private, public, magnate, or religious school of his or her choice.
For those of you who believe in education, like I do, this will help lift millions of African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty.
Since President Obama came into office, another two million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty.

This is unacceptable.
To the Hispanic community, I say, we are going to protect your jobs. We are going to build up your schools. And we are going to deliver safety and opportunity to your children, and you deserve it.
Earlier this week, along with my daughter Ivanka, I also wrote – she has a great heart, that I wrote down here – I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable child care.
A married couple earning $50,000 per year with two children and $8,000 in child care expenses will save 35% from their current tax bill.
A married couple earning $75,000 per year with two children and $10,000 in child care expenses will receive a 30% reduction in your tax bill.
Millions of low income people will be removed from the tax rolls entirely.
A Trump administration will deliver every American 3 things: A great economy, a safe country and an honest government, free of corruption.
We are going to get rid of it. I am going to reduce taxes. We are going to reduce taxes.
And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very very substantially.
We are going to reduce taxes, eliminate horrible regulations, unleash American energy, appoint the great judges, save the Second Amendment, reduce crime, create school choice, end illegal immigration, and renegotiate our terrible trade deals to put Americans back to work and to put Americans first.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, airports, schools and hospitals.
American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies. And American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds and that includes Denver. They have some very nice skyscrapers.
American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.
We will put new American steel into the spine of our country.
I will fight for every neglected part of this nation, and I will fight to bring us all together united in common purpose and common dreams.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
It’s time to break with the bitter failures of the past. It’s time to just, we have to break, we have to break with those failures. We have so many failures.
You know, think of it, we don’t win anymore folks. Where do we win? We don’t win.
We don’t win with crime. We don’t win with schools. We don’t win with trade. Our military is depleted. Our vets aren’t being treated properly. We are going to treat our vets properly.
We lose with health care. We don’t win anymore. We don’t win.
Our military can’t beat ISIS.
Can you imagine the great General Douglas MacArthur or the great General George Patton saying we can’t beat ISIS?
Patton would rip your heart out if you ever said that. We can’t beat them. Can you imagine that though? Can you imagine what they? They are watching right now. They are spinning in their graves.
And so often they’ll ask me, how do you defeat ISIS? I said, “You know what? I have a real chance of winning. I don’t want to tell the enemy how I am thinking.”
Does that make sense?

Can you imagine General Douglas MacArthur saying at a news conference, “Well, that’s a very good question, Jim. We’re going to hit them from the front on Oct. 7th at 3:00 in the afternoon and then we’re going to attack them from the back if we do well from the front. But by that time, the front is so well fortified, we may not do as well.”
Can you imagine these people?
I will give you good results. Don’t worry how I get there, okay? Please.
We had a clown today. An absolute clown. Robert Gates. He’s supposed to be an expert. He’s been there forever.
By the way, he writes a book. He says bad about everybody that he’s worked for. He’s been there for a long time. Everybody that he’s worked for he’s got. He’s a nasty guy. Probably has some problem that we don’t know about. But he’s a nasty guy and he spoke badly about Bush. He spoke badly about Obama. He speaks badly about everybody.
Never met the guy. Never saw him. I saw him on television. Didn’t like him. The end result of this is look where we are. He’s a mess. Okay? He’s a mess.
So he goes out and says negative things about me. I never met him. I never talked to him.
Believe me. I am so much better at what he’s doing than he is. You won’t even believe it.
Look at what he gave us. Look at the mess of all the these people that have been there for so many years.
Look at what we have. Look at the Middle East.
If we never touched them, we would’ve been a hell of lot better of than we are right now. What a shame. All of that the money but most importantly, the blood, the death.
And what do we have now? We’re in worse shape than we were 15 years ago by a factor of 10. And we’ve spent $6 trillion. $6 trillion. That seems to be the new number. $6 trillion.
Much more importantly, the lives that we’ve lost because we’re dealing with incompetent people. We’re dealing with stupid people. We’re dealing with people like Robert Gates that don’t have clue. And then when they leave office, they criticize everybody.
I don’t like critics. I don’t like critics. I like the people that get it done and get it done right.
We need to embrace a new inclusive and prosperous future. We can do that.
Jobs will return. Incomes will rise, and new factories will come rushing back to our shores. That’s what we have to have.
Once more, we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you. I love you. Thank you, Colorado. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you, Colorado.
Nov. 8th. Nov. 8th. Thank you. Thank you.

…You will like me so much. You will get that business. You know, all my life that business has never had problems, but in the last 7 or 8 years it’s been tough. With the EPA with all of the different difficulties you’re going through.
You are going to like Donald Trump and all of the workers that get put to work they’re going to love Donald Trump. So, that’s good.
… We’ve had some great poll numbers come out just today. Rasmussen is 5 up nationwide and I guess you probably saw Ohio is doing great. We’re 4 or 5 up. The Fox poll came out last night. We’re doing great.
Pretty much we’re doing great where we have to do great. Florida’s been terrific, and I think we’re going to have a big, big victory right here in the state of Pennsylvania and I think it’s going to be a big victory.
I went to school here. My children went to school here so it’s a very special place to me.
I also want to thank the Marcellus Shale Coalition and Ohio Oil and Gas Association and The West Virginia – oh that West Virginia, what a, what a victory I had there. It was almost like running unopposed. All of the folks in West Virginia they have been so great. They have been great. Great from day one.
And now what helped when Hillary made the statement “I’m going to put all those mines and miners out of business.” That was not a good statement to make. I don’t know, maybe she knew something I don’t know.
But your organizations represent tens of thousands of jobs for hardworking Americans.
…But they tell me that a Republican can’t carry the state of Pennsylvania. Wait until you see what happens here. Wait till you see. And I don’t believe it and you don’t believe it and I think you’re going to have yourself not only a victory, but a really big one. That’s going to go a long way to tell you what a wonderful industry you’re in.
And I have to say, do whatever you can to get out to vote Nov. 8th. Do whatever you can because a lot of things are happening. A lot of forces are happening. Whatever you can.
So it’s great to be Pittsburgh, the steel city. I have a lot of friends here.
Under a Trump administration, we’re going to bring back our steel jobs and we’re going to rebuild this nation so importantly.
Before going any further today, I want to address the turmoil unfolding right now in our country, and it seems to be a never ending problem.
America desperately needs unity and it needs the spirit of togetherness that has not really only got us through our toughest times – and we’ve had some tough times – but which has lifted us up in the past to our greatest achievements as a nation.
Everyday I see people of different backgrounds working together for a common good and we need to bring that spirit to every part of our country and become one American nation united by shared values and principles as American citizens.
We have to do it, and we have respect our flag. We have to respect our flag.
We all have to walk a mile in someone else’s shoes, see things through their eyes and then get to work fixing our very wounded country.
I mean, we have some will problems and we do have a wounded country. Many Americans are watching the unrest in Charlotte unfolding right before their eyes on the TV screens. Others are witnessing the chaos and the violence firsthand.
Our country looks bad to the world especially when we are supposed to be the world’s leader. How can we lead when we can’t even control our own cities?
We honor and recognize the right of all Americans to peacefully assemble, protest and demonstrate.

But there is no right in violent disruption or to threaten the public safety and peace of others.
Every single American in our country is entitled to live in a safe community. The violence against our citizens and our law enforcement must be brought to a very rapid end.
The people who will suffer the most as a result of these riots are law abiding African-American residents who live in these communities where the crime is so rampant. It’s their job, housing markets, schools, economic conditions that will suffer.
And the first duty of government is to protect their well-being and safety. We have to do that.
There is no compassion in tolerating lawless conduct. Crime and violence is an attack on the poor and will never be accepted in a Trump administration. Never. Ever.
Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the violent disruptor but to make life more comfortable for the African-American parent trying to raise their kids in peace,  to walk their kids to school, and to get their children great educations. We have to cherish and protect those people.
For every one violent protester, there are thousands of moms and dads and kids in that same community who just want to be able to sleep safely at night, to be able to walk on the streets, to be able to go to the grocery store.
More law enforcement, more community engagement, more effective policing is what our country needs. And we need it quickly.
Last year we saw 17% rise in violent crime in our 50 largest cities. Homicides are up nearly 50% in Washington D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore. More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago so far this year from Jan. 1st. Can you believe that?
Nationwide approximately 60% of murder victims under the age of 22 are African-American.
This is a national crisis and it’s the job of the next president of the United States to work with our governors and mayors to address this crisis and safe African-American lives.
Look at the example that we had in New York of Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who has been a tremendous person for me and a good friend of mine for a long time and a big endorsement. Big, big endorsement.
The policies he put into place ultimately brought down crime by 76% and murder in New York by 84%.
Think of how many families these policies saved from the worst heartache imaginable.
We need a national anti-crime agenda to make our city safe again. We have to make our cities safe again.
We will appoint the best prosecutors, investigators, and federal law enforcement officers in the country to dismantle the international cartels, gangs, criminals syndicates.
And I will stop the drugs from flowing into the country and poisoning our youth and many other people.
And if you’re not aware drugs are a very, very big factor in what you’re watching on television at night.
My administration will work with local communities and local officials to make the reduction of crime to make the reduction of crime a top priority.
Safety is the foundation of the ladder to American success – a great education and a really good paying job.
We’ve lost so many of ours good jobs to other countries. We’re going to be bringing them back right here to Pittsburgh to Pennsylvania. We’re going to be bringing them back to Ohio. We’re going to be bringing them back all over the country. They’re coming back. They’re coming back.
…To have the best schools and the best jobs, you must have safe communities. That means we must recognize the contribution of our police who come from all backgrounds and all walks of life and who often thanklessly risk their own lives to protect innocent people, many of whom they’ve never met.

We all remember earlier this year when officers in Dallas, hunted down for execution, continued protecting the public until their last moments on Earth. They were killed.
Every day, police officers risk their lives for really complete strangers. And in every year, many of them will go out on calls and never return. It’s tough being a police officer. And it’s hard now even recruiting police officers. It’s a tremendous problem.
Police are entrusted with immense responsibility, and we must do everything that we can to ensure that they are properly trained, that they respect all members of the public, and any wrongdoing is always – and it will be by them – vigorously addressed. Has to be.
But our men and women in blue – and you know this – the men and women in blue need your support. They need your thanks and they need your gratitude.
They are the lines separating civilians and civilization from total chaos.
They’re also the front lines of defense in the war on terror, as we saw recently with their quick action following the terrorist attacks in New Jersey and New York.
And the off duty police officers – I mean you saw the heroics of the off duty police officers in Minnesota. An amazing job they did catching this horrible person so quickly. How do you do that? They figured it out and within a short period of time they were able to catch him. I mean, who could do that? That’s tougher than finding oil, I will tell you. Right?
In addition to providing safety we must provide economic opportunity. That begins with school choice and leads to a secure job with a rising income.
This brings us to the subject of energy.
Producing more American energy is a central part of my plan to making America wealthy again, especially for the poorest Americans.
I knew I’d have to make that statement in order to get you guys a little bit enlivened. You’ll like the rest of what I’m going to say even more.
America is sitting a treasure trove of untapped energy.
Some $50 trillion in shale energy, oil reserves, and natural gas on federal lands in addition to hundreds of years of coal energy reserves. It’s all upside for this country – more jobs, more revenues, more wealth, higher wages, and lower energy prices.
I’m going to lift the restrictions on American energy and allow this wealth to pour into our communities, including right here in the state of Pennsylvania that we love.
According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on American energy, including shale production, will accomplish the following:
Increase GDP by more than $100 billion each year. That’s good music.
Add over 500,000 new jobs annually.
Increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years.
Increase federal, state, and local tax revenues almost $6 trillion over four decades.
Increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over the next 40 years.
In addition, we will probably streamline the permitting process, which probably makes you happier even than when I’m going to say we’re lowing taxes. The permitting process in your industry is a disaster. It’s a disaster.
Every friend I have in your industry, they tell me it has become horrible with the EPA. So we’re going to take care of that.
And all energy infrastructure projects including the billions of dollars held up by President Obama.

Part 4 of 6. Partial transcript of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s energy policy speech in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Sept. 22, 2016:
Billions and billions held up. Creating countless more jobs for our country in the process.
Overall my entire economic plan – tax reform, regulatory reform, energy reform, and trade reform will create at least 25 million new jobs over the next 10 years assuming an average growth rate of 3.5%.
And I believe we can reach beyond actually 4% growth. Why not?
And just so you know, when China does 7% or even 8%, it’s a major panic in the country. They then start devaluing of course and they get their numbers up, much to our chagrin.
My tax plan includes a 15% business rate, think of that, so that we’re reducing taxes from 35% all the way down for business to 15%, turning America into a jobs magnet.
Hillary Clinton would raise taxes on some small businesses as high as 45% and probably even higher than that. And as far as regulations are concerned it will be beyond anything you’re experiencing right now.
So you better get everybody out to vote, folks, or you can sort of forget it, and all these jobs that we’re talking about will go in the opposite direction.
Income taxes will be simplified from seven brackets to three, and middle class Americans will get a major tax cut including child care deductions and tax-free child care savings accounts.
My plan includes the elimination of all unnecessary regulations and a temporary moratorium on new regulations not compelled by Congress or public safety.
Over-regulation is costing our economy $2 trillion a year. And I think probably no other business has been affected than your business by over-regulation.
And one of the things I’ve seen, despite this massive tax cut, the biggest since Ronald Reagan and maybe beyond that, from 35% to 15%, people are more excited when I talk about the fact that we’re going to be cutting massively regulations.
We need regulations for safety and environment but regulations are becoming a major industry right now. We’re going to make it a much smaller industry, maybe a minor industry.
Your regulations are going to be cut back to a point that you’ll be able to have your businesses, grow your businesses, and start new businesses, and you’ll never be able to do that with what has taken place over the last eight years. I just think it’s a really important thing.
What has really impressed me is people in business have actually felt more strongly about that than the tax cut itself. So I understand that very well.
On energy, my economic plan unlocks our shale oil and gas and the energy technologies of both today and tomorrow.
Finally, my plan includes a re-negotiation of America’s trade deals and an enforcement of trade rules to increase jobs and wealth inside the U.S. We have people right in this room that could do so well for us.
We have negotiators of our trade deals who are political hacks, who are people that don’t know the first thing about negotiation. Of course, you could just look at the Iran deal and you’ll understand that. The deal that was just made recently with Iran. What a deal that is.
I mean, we have half of this room could have negotiated a deal 10 times better, and a lot of the room just wouldn’t have made a deal and that would have been a lot better.
But they did something that you folks…never saw before. We thought it was $400 million in cash. Cash. Not like a check. $400 million in cash. It was $1.7 billion in cash. And even you. You’ve never seen 1.7 in cash, right? We’re taking about cash Harold. Man.
That’ll take an airplane – I don’t even see how an airplane, even a big one, is big enough for that. I would like to see that someday. $1.7 billion in cash. But it had nothing to do with the hostages, right?
Strong border controls will also protect our workers and save our budget trillions in the long term.

Perhaps the most pro-growth economic plan anywhere in American history. I think it is.
Compare that to my opponent. She plans a $1.3 trillion tax hike, massive new regulations, and some of your industries sitting right in this room are out of business. The offshoring of American jobs and the aggressive restriction of American energy production.
Her plan will help only her wealthy donors and global special interests who benefit from the rigged system. And we are in a rigged system.
Hillary Clinton wants to put the coal miners out of work, ban hydraulic fracking in almost all places, and extensively restrict and ban energy production on public land and in most offshore areas. That’s what she said.
Remember she said, “We’re going to put the miners out of work”?
This will produce devastation for states like Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, and so many others where shale oil and shale energy and coal and coal production are critical parts of the economy.
I go to the coal areas and it’s like devastation. And these are amazing people. Unbelievable people.
Her plan hurts states like Colorado, Florida, Virginia, North Carolina, and anywhere with access to either onshore or offshore energy resources.
She also supports blocking the energy infrastructure that’s needed to move our energy resources to the market place.
According to the Wall Street Journal, overall more than a dozen fossil fuel projects, worth about $33 billion, have been either rejected by regulators or withdrawn by developers since 2012 only with billions more tied in projects still in regulatory limbo. They won’t happen either.
Now, if I’m president, they’ll happen quickly. I will tell you that. Happen very quickly. You’ll be amazing at how quickly they’ll happen.
Examples of energy transportation projects blocked or abandoned include an $850-million coal export facility in Washington, a $3 billion natural gas pipeline in the Northeast, and a $6.8-billion liquid natural gas export facility among others. Many others.
Billions of dollars in private infrastructure investment have been lost to the Obama-Clinton restriction agenda, and many many, many billions more to follow.
The platform produced by Hillary Clinton’s party this year also calls for a price on carbon. That’s just political speak for a massive new tax on coal and shale production – a tax on American consumers. And it’s very unfair to our country and it makes it very unfair and very uncompetitive to do business with other countries. Very. It makes it so tough to compete with other countries.
And remember every energy dollar that isn’t harvested here in America is harvested instead in a foreign country – often foreign countries not very friendly to us.
That not only means, so true, that we’re sending our jobs to those countries but it means that energy is being produced in foreign countries that lack our high environmental and conservation standards, which we want to keep.
That is just one more reason why we should pursue the safe and responsible production of America’s vast energy resources and reserves.
We need an American first energy plan. It’s going to be from now on America First.
This means opening federal lands for oil and gas production, opening offshore areas, and revoking policies that are imposing unnecessary restrictions on innovative new exploration technologies. The development of the Marcellus and Utica shale, that I know so well. I’m up in New York State. What a shame. What a shame…

…We’ll fundamentally change the economic landscape of this region and our country, bringing extraordinary new prosperity to millions – more jobs, higher wages, a larger tax base, and dollars flowing into our country for a change, instead of out of our country, which is typical.
Hillary Clinton’s war on energy will cost our economy $5 trillion at least.
She’s not only declared war on the miners, but on all oil and natural gas production. It’s war. Which supports 10 million jobs in the United States. And you people know it’s war. It’s going to be worse under her than it’s been under President Obama.
Access to low-cost liquid natural gas also supports the American chemical industry, which supports 40,000 jobs in the state of Pennsylvania.
We have just begun, as a nation, to recognize our economic advantage, that is made possible by shale energy.
The shale energy revolution will unleash massive wealth for American workers and their families.
At the same time, this energy revolution will produce new demand for American steel, and that means the steel workers will benefit.
And the steel workers today are having a very, very hard time. That business is going down on a yearly basis.
We are going to benefit the steel workers and the steel business.
But federal restrictions remain a major impediment to both shale production specifically and energy production in general.
Currently less than 10% of the federally managed surface and mineral estates are leased for oil and gas development. Almost 90% of our nation’s offshore acreage is off limits to energy production. In many cases, there is absolutely no reason for that.
Our energy policy will make full use of our domestic energy sources, including traditional and renewable energy sources. We want everything.
That means we will end the war on coal and the war on our miners. I will rescind the coal-mining lease moratorium, which is a horrible moratorium and so unfair. The excessive Interior Department stream rule and conduct a top-down review of all anti-coal regulations issued by the Obama administration.
We will eliminate the highly invasive Waters of the U.S. rule and scrap the $5 trillion  Obama-Clinton Climate Action Plan and the Clean Power Plan. These unilateral plans will increase monthly electric bills by double-digits without any measurable improvement in climate, whatsoever. Very unfair to our people and our workers.
I will re-focus the EPA on its core mission of ensuring clean air and clean, safe drinking water for all Americans. That’s what we want.
I believe firmly in conserving our wonderful natural resources and beautiful natural habitats.
My environmental agenda will be guided by true specialists in conservation, not those with radical political agendas that are putting our country behind the eight ball.
It will be a future of conservation, of prosperity, and of great success for the people in this room, and for all of those people that you employ, the tens of thousands of great people that you employ.
It will be a future of new technology, new innovation, and new solutions.
It will be a future we can achieve together, beginning with a victory on Nov. 8th. Get out and vote.
We will make American wealthy again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much.

…Thank you.
It is so great to be here in Pueblo, Colorado. We love Pueblo. And those two gentlemen are amazing men and I want to thank them for being with us.
You know, Pueblo is called home of the heroes. Did you know that? Because of your proud tradition of military service.
Pueblo’s the home of four Medal of Honor recipients and I just got the endorsement of 19 altogether, 19. So when you have 19, that’s pretty good.
But you have 4 which is amazing. As President Eisenhower said, “There must be something in the water out here in Pueblo”. Because all of you guys turn out to be heroes. What’s going on? What’s going on? Is there something in the water? Give me some of that water.
Colorado is home to six military bases. We’re going to eliminate the defense sequester and rebuild our military. We’re going to strengthen it. We’re gonna make it truly, truly, strong again.
Another great Colorado legacy is hunting and fishing.
My sons know that very well. They’re here all the time.
We’re going to conserve your lands for the future generations, and we’re going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege.
You know, a lot of people in this room, this is very impressive.
Thank you.  Thank you. It’s a great honor. It’s a great honor.
One other issue of such great importance in Colorado is energy.
Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to shut down the mines and shut down shale and shut down oil and natural gas, and we’re going to end the war on American energy, and we are going to put the miners back to work. They have to be put back to work.
I’ve also made a centerpiece of my economic revitalization plan the largest middle class tax cuts since Ronald Reagan and the largest regulatory reform in American history. We’re gonna do that.
And Hillary Clinton is going to increase your taxes very, very substantially, and she admits it. At least she admits it.
But that’s because I know how over taxed and over regulated the working people and companies in this country are.
A central issue I would like to address today is our broken tax code, an issue of concern to all Americans, along with securing our borders, rebuilding our military, keeping us safe from terrorism, re-doing our trade deals and bringing back jobs – they’re sort of one and the same.
Fixing our broken tax code is one of the main reasons I’m running for president.
I’ve been saying from the beginning of this campaign, how ridiculous, complex and, yes, unfair the tax system is. It is an unfair system. And so complex that very few people understand it. Fortunately, I understand it.
This is not the fault of the IRS, but the political class that is owned outright by the special interests and lobbyists. Believe me.
It’s these politicians who wrote the tax code and who are constantly adding, revising, and changing an already over complicated set of laws – all at the behest of their favorite donors and special interests who want certain provisions put in and they won’t take no for an answer. It’s thousands of pages long and almost no one understands it.
The average American would need an army of accountants and lawyers to wade through and wade through it.
Many so called experts, due to the sheer size and complexity of the code, don’t have a clue what these pages represent. These are experts. They get paid and they don’t even know what it represents.
The unfairness of the tax laws is unbelievable. It’s something I’ve been talking about for a long time despite quite frankly being a big beneficiary of the laws. But I’m working for you now. I’m not working for Trump.
Believe me.

I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone, which is why I am one who can truly fix them. I understand it. I get it.
And that is what I commit to do. We want fairness. We want money brought in. And we want money to be spent when it goes out because they spend our tax dollars so unfairly and unwisely. Remember that.
As a businessman and real estate developer, I have legally used the tax laws to my benefit and to the benefit of my company, my investors, and my employees.
I mean honestly, I have brilliantly – I have brilliantly used those laws.
I have often said on the campaign trail that I have a fiduciary responsibility to pay no more tax than is legally required like anybody else. Or put it another way, to pay as little tax as legally possible.
And I must tell you, I hate the way they spend our tax dollars. And believe me, that makes a difference.
As a major real estate developer in this country and throughout the world, I face enormous taxes – city taxes, state taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes, employee taxes, federal taxes, VAT taxes (different countries).
It’s my job to minimize the overall tax burden to the greatest extent possible, which allows me to re-invest in neighborhoods and in workers and build amazing properties, which fuel tremendous growth in their communities, and always help our great providers of jobs and we have to help our small businesses. What it’s all about. What it’s all about.
The news media is now obsessed with an alleged tax filing from the 1990’s at the end of one of the most brutal economic downturns in our country’s history.
If you remember the early 90’s, other than I would say 1928, there was nothing even close.
The conditions facing real estate developers in that early ’90 period were almost as bad as the Great Depression of 1929 and far worse than the Great Recession of 2008. Not even close.
What had been a booming economy in the era of Ronald Reagan changed dramatically and the business landscape changed with it. Bank failures and collapse. The absolute total destruction of the savings and loan industry. And the implosion of the retail market and real estate in general. Something we’ve never seen anything like it.
Many businesspeople, including many of my competitors and some of my friends, were not able to survive.
Companies, jobs, and opportunities were lost, and lives were destroyed as tens of thousands of people were put out of work.
Some of the biggest and strongest people and companies went absolutely bankrupt, which I never did by the way. Are you proud of me? I would have loved to use that card but I just didn’t want to do it.
Thank you.
Yet today, my company is bigger, stronger, far greater assets than it’s ever had before. More premium properties. We’ve never done better. It’s the strongest we’ve ever been.
And we employ thousands of people, and over the years have employed thousands and thousands of people, which is a thing that frankly makes me most happy.
That did not happen by chance or luck. It happened by action and talent – lot of talent.
I was able to use the tax laws of this country and my business acumen to dig out of the real estate mess. You would call it a depression. When few others were able to do what I did in those most – I’m a star. Thank you. You are too – Oh, they were amazing times.
In those most difficult times when so many had their backs to the wall, I reached within myself and delivered for my company, my employees, my family, and the communities where my properties existed, and I really delivered.

People like my opponent Hillary Clinton whose only –
Folks, let’s win on Nov. 8th. Okay? Let’s just.
Anyway, her only method of making money is by selling government favors and granting access to special interests. Know nothing about how businesses succeed and grow. Hillary Clinton has never created a single job in her entire life.
By the way, we have somebody who has. Where’s Bernie Marcus? Where’s Bernie? Bernie Marcus, founder of Home Depot. Go to Home Depot. He only created about hundreds of thousands. How many jobs does Home Depot produce right now, Bernie?
Millions, that’s a lot of jobs. A great guy, a great man. An unbelievable entrepreneur, and somebody that put a lot of people to work, and Home Depot is a terrific company. And thank you for being here, Bernie. I appreciate it. Thank you.
They haven’t added a single dollar of value, people like Hillary, to the American economy.
Hillary Clinton hasn’t made an honest dollar in her entire life.
All she does is takes from you, takes from your country and peddles influence to donors, special interests, and foreign actors, for astronomical dollars like you’ve never seen before. It’s corruption of the highest order. You know it, I know it, she knows it, and plenty of other people know it but they’re not doing anything about it.
Well, I made my money as a very successful private business person, following the law all the way.
Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official, breaking the law and putting her government office up for sale. And now she’s running for president.
By her own account, Hillary Clinton left the White House, dead broke. She said “dead broke”.
And then remember, she became a Senator for New York, did nothing. Remember the jobs she was going to produce? She never produced them.
And then she became Secretary of State.
And now, she and her husband have made more than $200 million without building a company or creating a single thing of value.
During the early ‘90s, as companies went absolutely bust. They were collapsing all over the place, left and right, the media and powers that be said, “Donald Trump, he could never, ever make it back.”
Oh I remember those stories. We were all. How many people then were in trouble like everybody was in trouble?
But they said, and they were so gleeful, “He could never make it back.” They said I had billions of dollars in borrowing, which is true. And hundreds of millions dollars in personal guarantees, which is true. And no pathway out, which is false.
That was a bad time. That was an ugly time. Lot of people you’ll never hear from them again from that period.
But I never had any doubts whatsoever. And most importantly I never ever gave up or thought about giving up.
That’s because I knew in my heart that when the chips are down is when I perform the very best. That is always when I perform the best. It’s when I make my best decisions, judgments.
You remember Bernie saying Hillary Clinton has bad judgement?
And honestly my single greatest asset probably is temperament because if you didn’t have the right temperament, you could have never escaped that financial jungle. That’s for sure.
Single greatest asset is my temperament. And I have a temperament for winning. You have to win. We have a temperament all of us for winning.

And when people make the mistake of underestimating me, that’s when they are really in for their biggest surprise. Same thing with a lot of the people in this room.
Just look at what happened in the primary. Remember the primary?
“Trump’s running. Oh, don’t worry about it. He’s the star of The Apprentice. He built a nice company. Don’t worry.”
Just look at what happened. Our incredible movement is doing, just take a look, this is a movement, folks. A movement like they’ve never seen.
What we’ve done is amazing, and now we have one person left, crooked Hillary, and we have to beat her on Nov. 8th.
And you have to get out and vote, and you have to get out and make calls, and you have to do.
And jokingly I like to say, “If you’re sick, if you get the absolute worst prognosis from the doctor, and it looks like maybe you’re not even going to make it, it doesn’t make a damn bit of difference. Get up and vote on Nov. 8th.”
But the reason I never felt endangered, really and I never did, I never felt endangered during the real estate downturn – I guess I didn’t read the stories – was that I knew myself, I knew my business, I knew the financial system, I knew the tax code, and most importantly I knew how to fight. Because that’s what you had to do. That was fighting. And that’s what I am, I’m a fighter.
And I’m now going to fight for you. I’m not fighting for me anymore. I’m fighting for you, fighting for you.
With my knowledge, I knew that I would make a comeback without question. I never had a doubt in my mind.
And, again, I don’t know, I don’t even think of it as a comeback. It was just like, you know, we had tough periods, good periods, tough periods. We just knew that things were going to be just fine.
But that is why I’m here today.
Thank you, darling. And I’m praying for you and I love you. Great people. Now I get the whole hero thing. Now I get it.
But that is why I have left private business to go into public life.
If you would have ever told me that I was going to be doing this – now had I known I was going to be doing this I would have commenced with certain television interviews, radio interviews, I would have said things slightly differently. And I wouldn’t have had as good a time in life and as much fun in life, but it would have made my life as a politician a little bit easier, right?
And you know, these people, holier than thou, they never say anything around the breakfast room table, do they, do they? They never do.
Bill and Hillary never say anything like this around the breakfa – can you imagine what they say?
Well, they talk about deplorables and irredeemables, right? They talk about that.
You’re deplorable. You’re irredeemable. I think irredeemable might be worse if you think. Everyone talks about, ugh, deplorable. Ay yai yai.
These are the greatest people in this room and many other rooms like it. We’ve seen hundreds of thousands of people. These are the greatest people.
And really, importantly, we’re going to make it great for all of the people. It’s not my people, or people that are voting for me. We’re going to make it great for all of our people in this country.
But I’m doing this, and I’m doing it for a very specific reason, because I understand our country is in very, very bad shape.
That’s all right. Sounds like a nice person.

Oh, oh. I thought that was the commission on presidential debates. That was what…I said I didn’t know they were here. You know, when they were playing with the mic back and forth I thought that was the commission? I thought that’s a beautiful commission.
Let’s see what happens on Sunday again. My biggest opponent was the microphone.
And now our country is in need of a major comeback. It needs one now just about more than ever.
We owe $20 trillion in debt, doubled during Obama’s period as president. Doubled. Think of it.
But that’s only part of the story. We have over $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities, and we have a budget that’s out of control with annual deficits.
In addition, because of the incompetence of our leaders, we run massive trade deficits on an annual basis.
I’ll get Bernie to negotiate a couple of these trade deals, you’ll find out.
And we now have almost $800 billion a year in trade deficits.
And you say to yourself, who are these people that negotiating our deals?
Our country is broke. It’s broke.
And the worst part is that with all of the money we spend so foolishly all over the world, stupidly all over the world – we protect the other countries with tremendous – I mean tremendous – losses.
And we want to protect countries, but they should pay us the proper amount. Why should we be losing money?
But think of it, with all of the money that we spend and with $20 trillion in debt, and all of the things we do and all of the talk and all of the political nonsense, we have a decaying infrastructure. We have failing schools. We have rising crime.
We have a depleted military – are great people and a depleted military.
We have planes that are so old they go to airplane graveyards to take out parts. They go to museums to take out parts ‘cause they don’t make the parts anymore.
We have an open border. We have an economy that can’t create full time high paying jobs. Because our jobs – our great jobs – many of them have been taken.
And we will build the wall. Don’t worry, we’re going to build the wall. We’re going to build the wall. We’re going to build the wall. We’re going to build the wall.
We’re going to build the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. They don’t know it yet, but they’re going to pay for the wall.
And you have a tremendous problem right here. But we’re going to have drugs stop pouring into our country, destroying our youth, poisoning our people. Poisoning our people.
We are a divided nation, and each week it seems we’re getting more and more divided with race riots on our streets on a monthly basis.
Somebody said don’t call them race riots, but that’s what they are. They’re race riots. And it’s happening more and more.
You looked at Charlotte, a great city where I have property. A great city. You look at different places around our country. St. Louis, Ferguson, Baltimore, Chicago.
In Chicago, thousands of shootings, thousands since Jan. 1st. 4,000 shootings, think of it, since January.
This is not the America that was handed down to us, and it’s not the America that we want to leave to our children. And it’s certainly not the America we want to pass down to our grandchildren.
But this is the America we will have if we don’t turn things around starting immediately. We don’t have much time, folks. We don’t have much time.
And if we don’t win this election, it will never happen again. This opportunity is never going to happen again.
What I say is not lost on the American people because 70% of you believe our country is headed in the wrong direction.
And I’m trying to figure out who the other 30% are. I want to meet them.
We cannot have another four years of Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton will be worse. She will be worse.
We can turn our country around. But if we don’t make a change in leadership right now, it will never happen.
The failed political establishment must go. It must go for the sake of your country, your future, and those you love the most.

In the early 90’s, they splashed the front pages with stories about how Donald Trump, me, they said I was finished. Everybody said that I was done.
There were front page articles in the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, among many others. They were thrilled and delighted.
And I’m still here. Can you believe these people? They must be going crazy. Can you believe it? The Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, they are going crazy. They say 1990’s and now here I am still. They say “Can we ever get rid of this guy?”
But they were thrilled to write these negative stories. So they said I was finished.
The only person who didn’t think that I was in trouble was a guy named Donald J. Trump. I didn’t think I was in trouble.
I sort of didn’t know what they were talking about. Does that make sense? Power of positive thinking. But I didn’t know what they were talking about.
I started my company with a small loan, and as I grew I borrowed money to grow the company. And big money from big banks.
When the bottom fell out from the real estate market, I had this large amount of debt and it stayed the same but the value of assets plummeted. So you have to learn. I was young so you have to learn. And I learned, and I worked really hard.
But I knew how to use the tax code to rebuild my company when others didn’t.
I knew how to understand, and I fully understood the banks and the bankers and how to deal with them. I knew a lot.
But my understanding of the tax code gave me a tremendous advantage over those who didn’t have a clue about it, including many of my competitors who lost everything they had, never to be heard from again. Never. They were never heard from again.
Some people that I knew, they were good, they were doing a good job, never ever to be heard from again.
Now they’re gone and I’m here and I’m ready to turn things around for our country.
We’re going to do it. The early 90’s was a very tough time for the world. But in tough times, you need very tough and very smart people.
These are tough times for America. And I will tell you, we need very tough and very smart leadership. Not people who tell you what you want to hear, but people who tell you what you need to hear.
We must never allow corrupt career politicians like the Clintons ever back into the White House again.
These tough times were when I performed my very best.
The economy and banks, they were collapsing. The government was a mess. But I enjoyed waking up everyday to go to battle, and that’s what it was for three years.
I had an expression in the early 90’s, “Survive until ’95 and you’ll be okay.” And people copied it. Survive till ’95.
I enjoyed getting up every morning to take on the financial establishment on behalf of my company, my employees, my family and myself and win. And that’s what we did. I won, I won, and I kept on winning, ‘till this day. I kept on winning.
All you have to do is ask all of the 17 people that we competed against and you’ll ask them, “How did Trump do?” They’ll say, “He won.”
But that’s the thinking we need for our country. That’s the thinking we need when we’re negotiating trade deals, which are horrible. And military deals and economic deals on behalf of the American people.
We need great people negotiating our deals for us.
We have the greatest negotiators and the greatest business people in the world. And we use political hacks to negotiate our deals. Not anymore we’re not. Not anymore.
Put me into the boardroom as your representatives, and I promise I will deliver.
Hillary Clinton is in it only for herself, her donors, and her special interests.
I’m fighting for America.
Many people have said over the years that I perform better under pressure than anyone they’ve ever seen. I’ve proven that over and over again.

And that’s what I do, and that’s what we have to do right now, because our country is under tremendous pressure.
When the pressure is on, when the odds are stacked against me and you, because many of you people are the same way, when people say it can’t be done, that’s when we just get started. We’re going to change things around.
The thing that motivates me the most is when people tell me something is absolutely impossible. For me, impossible is just a starting point. That’s when you begin.
…With $20 trillion in debt and a $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities, a lot of people say it’s impossible.
We are sitting on a big, fat, ugly bubble. And Obama doesn’t allow our Fed to raise interest rates, because when those interest rates go, you watch what’s going to happen. It’s going to be very unattractive. He’ll be out playing golf some place.
But you know what? They’re wrong in what they are doing, and it’s unfair to the people. It’s unfair to the country.
…From the depths of that terrible real estate depression, I created a company worth billions and billions of dollars and created tens of thousands of jobs.
Our company, our employees, we actually re-made skylines together, revitalized neighborhoods, rejuvenated communities, and hired thousands and thousands of workers.
On Nov. 8th, America’s comeback begins, and we need a comeback.
And we are going to rise up from our present challenges, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
A lot of people said “Why are you going to Pueblo?”
I said, number one I like the state. Number one everything about Pueblo says winner, including what Dwight Eisenhower said long ago.
And they said, “Do you think they will like you in Pueblo?” I said I think so.
They said, “Well, you have a lot of Hispanics/Latinos in Pueblo.” I said I think that’s why they are going to like me actually. That’s why they are going to like me. Believe me.
When you look at what’s happening with the African-American community, when you look at what’s happening with the Hispanic community, very, very unfair. Very, very unfair.
Thank you.
The people here in Pueblo know what it takes to rebuild this country.
This is the city with – friend or foe, friend or foe? Well, he’s got a very weak voice so you can let him stay. But just be good. sir, be nice, be nice. We all love you. You’re on the other side.
You know the Bernie Sanders people had so much more spirit in them and vigor than the Hillary people. The Hillary people are not in the same category.
If Bernie Sanders had not made the deal with the devil, he would have gone down in the history of politics as a very rare and unique person.
But when he made that deal, and I know that he wished he didn’t, his followers were lost. He had an event recently where 150 people showed up to hear him talk.
And I will say this, we’ve always had by far the biggest crowds. But you know what? He was second. He was second.
But he made a deal with the devil and his supporters are really no longer his supporters any longer. That I can tell you.
And you know one of the things that Bernie Sanders and I agreed on is trade.
And trade is something that is so sad for our country. What’s happening, how your jobs are being taken.
The difference is, I can do something about it and make a bad deal into a great deal. All he knew is it was bad. And we want to do something about it. We just can’t be a critic.
This is a city with a rich immigrant history and a rich Latino history.
The Latinos love Trump, right?

That has contributed so much to this country and to this state, amazing place, through the people of Pueblo – thank you – and their families.
We’ve hailed from all regions – they’ve come from all regions of the world. You are united by this one very important factor – you are all Americans.
And as Americans, you’re entitled to the same protections as every other American gets.
Everyone living lawfully inside our borders are entitled to the same things – safe communities, a great education, and access to high paying jobs and really good jobs.
And this isn’t happening…[inaudible] change that I will deliver.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years delivering nothing but talk and failure.
You know the other night when we’re at the debate, I noticed more than ever before, we’re at the debate and she says she’s going to do this or this or this or that. And I said to myself, “Why hasn’t she been doing it for 30 years?” Right? Just talk.
Her policies have brought death and destruction overseas and poverty at home.
She’s brought massive poverty for everyone, but especially for African American and Latino citizens.
She comes in, tries to get their vote. Although I must tell you the enthusiasm for her is very small.
Don King, the great boxing promotor, who endorsed me, said “Donald, the African-Americans, Donald, love you.” Don King, big Don.
And here’s a man whether you like him or not that’s a smart cookie, a tough cookie, and he’s done a job, he’s done a job.
But he said, “You are going to see a big surprise on Nov. 8th with” – and in this case he was talking about the African Americans – he said, “You going to see a big surprise because so many African-American people love you, and they want you to really help them out in terms of the inner cities in particular where it’s so dangerous, where education is so bad, where jobs are non existent, where youth cannot get jobs.”
So I want to thank Don King and so many others for their endorsement.
We had so many others so many reverends and pastors. Bishop Jackson from Detroit, incredible people. Darrell Scott, Pastor Darrell Scott, so many, and I’m so honored by it. Believe me, I am honored by it.
And Don said that Hillary Clinton takes the African-American vote for granted.
Here’s the bad news, I don’t think their gonna want to go out and vote for her. This is not Barack Obama where they really had spirit to vote for him. Nobody has spirit.
Remember she called African-American male youth “super predators”? Who wants to vote for her? She’s not going to do the job anyway.
She opposes school choice, and she wants to trap African-American and Latino children into the failing government schools because she’s getting a lot of money from the teacher’s unions. So, she doesn’t want to have choice. And she doesn’t want to end Common Core so we can bring education locally, which is very important. She doesn’t want to do that.
We’re going to get poor minority…[inaudible]…
I’m telling you, I’m telling you the Commission on Presidential Debates is operating this microphone.
Every time the Secret Service hears that sound they go “Whoa!”
No, that Commission on Presidential Debates, what a joke they are. I got to go through them on Sunday night again.
And by the way Mike Pence on Tuesday night. He has been fantastic. Governor Mike Pence, what a fantastic guy. Tuesday night! Tuesday night!
We are going to get poor minority children out of failing schools and then into the public, private charter or magnet school of their choice. Going to be a big difference.
I’ll tell you the Latino children, the African-American children, it’s going to be some difference, believe me, some difference.

Hillary Clinton supports Obamacare and wants to expand it. And Obamacare is an absolute disaster.
How much have they raised your premiums in this area? Double. Double. How about triple, quadruple? It’s horrible, and it’s going to die of its own weight. But we are going to terminate it and we are going to replace it, and it is going to be so much better and so much less expensive.
Premiums in Colorado are set to go up another 20%. The only way to stop this disaster is to vote for Trump. I’m telling you to vote for Trump. They will be going down.
Hillary Clinton also supports the terrible trade deals like Bill Clinton’s NAFTA and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization.
And next she wants to support Trans-Pacific partnership – the deal she calls the gold standard. That she lied to during the debate. She said she never called it the gold standard. And Lester Holt kept questioning me on everything, but he never questioned her on that. Right? And it turned out she called it the gold standard and she will approve it if she gets in.
But if she gets in, that will be one bad mistake I can tell you.
Colorado has lost more than one in seven manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China deals.
But while you’ve lost out, Hillary Clinton has raked in cash from her contributors.
She and Bill have made $150 million dollars in speeches – and she’s a bad speaker – to special interests. They gave 39 speeches to big banks, including $2 million in speaking fees to Goldman Sachs. The Clintons received another $2 million from a Swiss Bank after Hillary negotiated a favorable settlement for them as Secretary of State.
To hide the corruption, Hillary Clinton puts her emails on an illegal secret server open to foreign hacking. Then she deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a Congressional subpoena to hide them from the public.
She lies to Congress under oath. And her ring leaders took the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals. Explain that one.
In so many ways, it’s worse than Watergate. The investigation of Hillary Clinton was rigged and it’s a shame. And it’s one of the saddest things that has ever taken place in our nation. Believe me, what’s gone on.
We’ve become a Banana Republic. You know what? We have.
Now today we learned that the FBI may have made a side deal with Clinton’s top aides to destroy their laptops. Did you know this?
Let me repeat, the FBI reportedly made a deal to destroy the laptops of government officials implicated in a massive criminal cover-up.
I think you have a lot of great people in the FBI and you do indeed. I think they’re extremely upset at what’s going on.
Hillary Clinton is the ringleader of a criminal enterprise that has corrupted our government at the highest levels.
And the American people have one chance to stop it – by showing up and voting on Nov. 8th.
People have had it with the years and decades of Clinton corruption. This is the year the American people say enough is enough.
The Clintons are the sordid past. We are together, as a movement all of us, outside of this area, all over the country, we are the bright future.
Now another issue I want to address today finally is immigration.
As I’ve mentioned, Pueblo is filled with wonderful hard working immigrants. It’s these hard working immigrants who stand to lose the most from our open border immigration policy.
Illegal immigration and broken visa programs take jobs directly from Latino and Hispanic workers living here lawfully today. You know that. They’re taking your jobs.
Illegal immigration also brings with it massive crime and massive drugs, including a terrible heroin problem right here in Colorado. You have a big problem.

So we are going to build a border wall…We’re going to build a wall, and we’re going to stop the drugs, the gangs, the violence from pouring into Colorado.
We got a lot of bad people that came in. We have great people that came in, but we have a lot of gang members. We have a lot of drug lords. We have a lot drug sellers. We are going to ship them the hell out, okay? Immediately.
We are going to shut down the sanctuary cities that have led to the preventable deaths of so many.
Cases like Kate Steinle murdered in San Francisco by a five-time deported illegal immigrant who should never ever have been here.
Or cases like Sarah Root killed by an illegal immigrant released and then released again after the killing.
There are over two million criminal aliens in this country, and we are going to get them out and get them out fast.
To the cartels, the gangs, the drug dealers, I have a simple message for you. Your days are numbered, and your reign of crime will soon come crashing to an end.
But we also have to keep our country safe from terrorism.
The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and New Jersey and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota – you all saw that last week – were foreign nationals admitted into our country, as was the mall shooter in Washington.
Or look at cases like the Boston bombers here on asylum. Or the San Bernardino shooting here on a fiancee visa –  fiancee, nice visa – from Saudi Arabia, killed 14s people that gave them a baby shower a short while before and she killed them. Not only killed them but many, many, many horribly wounded ’till this day.
Or the Orlando shooter, the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan. Terrorists are infiltrating our country.
Now, Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees and countless more refugees from across the Middle East.
I want to keep your families safe. My job is not to represent foreign countries. My job is to represent the citizens of the United States of America. Putting your jobs, your wages, and your security first.
America first, remember that. America first.
If you’re living in the United States today as a lawful resident or a U.S. citizen, I will ensure you have a safe community, rising wages, and secure immigration system, which is what we want.
Immigration security is national security. Very important. It’s national security.
Here are some of the things we will do starting in 2017.
We are going to lower your taxes substantially. She’s going to raise your taxes.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation.
We’re going to repeal and replace job killing Obamacare.
We will make child care affordable.
We’re going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege. And I have the endorsement of the NRA, very early on. Thank you.
We’re going to support the men and women of law enforcement.
And we’re going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend our Constitution.
We are going to finally rebuild America. We are going to revitalize America. We are going to unite America. We’re going to come together as a people.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America – like your cap – we will make America great again.
Thank you everybody. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.

…I’m thrilled to be here tonight. Beautiful city – Manheim!
And I’ll tell you what, we’re gonna win the great state of Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania. We are going to win Pennsylvania.
We are going to win back the White House and we going to be so happy. We are going to be so happy and we are going to again be so proud of our country. We will be proud.
We’re going to take on the corrupt media, the powerful lobbyists, and the special interests that have stolen your jobs, your factories, and your future, and that’s exactly what’s happened.
And we are going to stop Hillary Clinton from continuing to raid the industry from your state for her profit.
Hillary Clinton has collected millions of dollars from the same global corporations shipping your jobs and your dreams to other countries. You know it and everybody else knows it.
That’s why, Clinton, if she ever got the chance would 100% approve Trans-Pacific Partnership, a total disastrous trade deal. She called the deal the gold standard.
The TPP will bring economic devastation to Pennsylvania, and our campaign is America’s one and only chance to stop that and lots of other bad things that are happening to our country.
And she lied about the gold standard the other night at the debate. She said she didn’t say it. She said it.
And we don’t want to stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership and if we don’t then remember this – if we don’t stop it billions and billions of jobs and wealth will be vacuumed right out of Pennsylvania and sent to those other countries. Just like NAFTA was a disaster, this will be a disaster.
Frankly, I don’t think it will be as bad as NAFTA. It can’t get any worse than that. Signed by Bill Clinton.
All of us here in this massive room tonight can prevent this from happening. Together we will stop TPP, and we can end the theft of American jobs and prosperity.
One man, and folks, we have to do it. It’s time.
It’s time we bring our country back. It’s time we act like intelligent people. It’s time that we don’t let Mexico and all of these other countries take our jobs and that’s what they are doing.
You look at here, the miners. Look at the way they’re been treated. We are going to protect our miners. We are going to protect our steel workers. We are going to protect our factories and our manufacturing.
Now look, I knew one man. I’m not a big fan but one man who knew the dangers of TPP was Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie.
He was right about one thing – only one thing – and that was trade, and he was right about it because he knew we were getting ripped off but he wouldn’t be able to do anything about it.
We’re going to do a lot about it. We’re going to have those highways running the opposite direction. We’re going to have a lot of trade but it’s going come into our country.
We are going to start benefitting our country because right now it’s a one way road to trouble.
Our jobs leave us. Our money leaves us.
With Mexico, we get the drugs; they get the cash. That simple.
And by the way, by the way, we’re going to have a very, very powerful, a very ,very strong southern border. And we’re going to have drugs stop pouring into our country.
And we will build the wall.

We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and plenty of other people.
And we’re going to help all of the people in our country who are so horribly addicted to what’s coming in. But we’re going to stop it and we’re going to stop it fast.
And who is going to pay for the wall? 100%. They may not know it yet but they’re paying. Believe me, they’re paying. They haven’t figured that one out yet.
Hillary Clinton is controlled by global special interests. She’s on the opposite side of Bernie on the trade issue. She is totally in the opposite side of Bernie.
A new audio tape that has surfaced just yesterday from another one of Hillary’s high-roller fundraisers shows her demeaning and mocking Bernie Sanders and all of his supporters.
And you know, I’ll tell you something. We have a much bigger movement than Bernie Sanders ever had. True. It’s true. We have much bigger crowds than Bernie Sanders ever had. It’s true. And we have a more important movement than Bernie Sanders ever had because we’re going to save our country. Okay? We’re going to save our country.
But I can tell you that Bernie Sanders would have left a great, great legacy had he not made the deal with the devil. He really would have left a great legacy.
Now he shows up and a 120 people come in to hear him talk. Bernie Sanders would have left a great legacy had he not made the deal, had he held his head high and walked away.
Now he’s on the other side perhaps from us but we want to get along with everybody and we will. We going to unite the country.
But what Bernie Sanders did to his supporters was very, very unfair, and they’re really not his supporters any longer and they’re not going to support Hilary Clinton. I really believe a lot of those people and coming over and largely because of trade, college education, lots of other things, but largely because of trade. They’re coming over to our side. You watch. You watch.
Especially after Hillary mocks him and mocks all of those people by attacking him and his supports as living in their parents’ basements and trapped in dead-end careers. That’s not what they are.
She describes many of them as ignorant, and they want the United States to be more like Scandinavia but that half the people don’t know what that means in a really sarcastic tone. ‘Cause she’s a sarcastic woman.
To sum up, and I’ll tell you the other thing, she’s an incompetent woman and I’ve seen it. She’s an incompetent woman.
Just take a look at what she touches. It never works out.
And you watch, her run for the presidency will never, ever work out ‘cause we can’t let it work out.
To sum up, Hilary Clinton thinks Bernie Sanders’ supporters are hopeless and ignorant basement dwellers.
Then of course, she thinks people who vote for and follow us are deplorable and irredeemable. I don’t think so. I don’t think so.
We have the smartest people. We have the sharpest people. We have the most amazing people.
And you know, in all of the years of this country, they say – even the pundits – most of them aren’t worth the ground they’re standing on, some of their ground could be very wealthy ground, but most of these people say that they have never seen a phenomenon like this going on.
We have crowds like this wherever we go. We have these massive crowds. And some call it the greatest phenomenon they’ve ever seen politically in their lives. And I think that’s what it is.
But remember this, one of them said to me, not so long ago, “It doesn’t matter if you win or lose. What you’ve done is amazing.”
You know what I said? “Forget it.”

Because if we don’t win on Nov. 8th.
First of all, I have tens and tens of millions of dollars. Nobody else does. I put my own money into this. Plus, we have small supporters. A limited number of people that just want to help the Republican Party.
But I have put self-funding in to a level that they haven’t seen maybe ever or maybe for a many, many years.
And I’ll tell you what and the money is the least of it. I’ve put a lot of energy. We put a lot of heart and soul, all of us. I know some of you people get here at 12 p.m. in the afternoon for this and earlier.
I know, I know, I know.
Here’s the good news. When you leave is it worth it? Is it worth it?
But if we don’t win on Nov. 8th, I will say, I don’t care what they write. I don’t care if they have to give us a lot of credit. I think they have to give us credit. I will consider it a tremendous waste of time, energy, and money. Believe me.
Because if we don’t get there, we’re not going to able to do the job.
And we’re going to be doing something for this country that this country has needed for many, many years. We are going to do something so spectacular. You’re going to be so proud of your country once again. You’re not proud of country now. You’re certainly not proud of your leader.
How about last week… Are you proud of your leader?
How about two weeks ago, $400 million in cash go into Iran? Right? Remember the hostages, and then he lied about that. He said, “No, no, it wasn’t for hostages.” But the hostages couldn’t leave until they got the cash.
But it turned out to be wrong because it’s now looking like it’s… and get this, see the corners over there. You couldn’t fit them in here. $1.7 billion in cash they paid to a terrorist nation. They paid to Iran. $1.7 billion.
Or how about last week? They were going to deport 800 people. They were all ready for deportation, which means they had problems. But they made a mistake. And instead of deporting these 800 people back to the Middle East, guess what happened? They became United States citizens.
And then that turned out be wrong just like the $400 million became $1.7 billion.
Well, it looks like the 800 people are 1,700 people, and welcome, welcome, welcome, folks.
And then I said, “Well, you made a mistake, so undo it.” They said, “Well, we can’t do that because that wouldn’t be constitutional.”
The world looks at us like we’re stupid people.
But we’re not going to be stupid people much longer, folks. Tell you. And you’ve got to go out, you’ve got to go out, and you’ve got to get your friends, and you’ve got to get everybody you know.
And you’ve got to watch your polling booths because I hear too many stories about Pennsylvania, certain areas. I hear too many bad stories, and we can’t lose an election because of you know what I’m talking about.
So, go and vote, and then go check out areas because a lot of bad things happen. And we don’t want to lose for that reason. We don’t want to lose, but we especially we don’t want to lose for that reason. So, go over and watch and watch carefully because we’re going to win the state of Pennsylvania.
And if we win Pennsylvania, we take back the White House.
We’re leading in Ohio. We’re leading in North Carolina. I think we’re leading all over the place.

We’re leading in states that never really played for Republicans, but we’re leading all over. We’re doing so great.
If we win the state of Pennsylvania wins, where I went to school, where my kids went to school, if we win the state of Pennsylvania, we are going to have a country that you are going to be so proud of. Believe me.
So let’s not forget the other night, the recent debate, which I think I won to be honest with you even though they gave me a bum mic.
Okay. So how many people did you see that – they call it “the commission” on the debates. The commission. You know, “commission”. They did a great job.
I go to mics all the time. The mics are working.
Here we have the commission on presidential debates. Big fancy name and they gave me a bum mic.
And I’ve got to scream into the mic and I’ve friends in the audience and they keep going like this. “What’s going on?” They gave me a bum mic.
So how many people, in this room, think that maybe that was done on purpose? Yeah. Okay?
And the head man, after an hour and a half and it’s over, and I got great press, people coming up. Now, I got great press until what happened. One minute later all of the dopes that work at CNN, they said “Oh, Trump lost” they start screaming. I don’t even think half of them watched because they want to change the narrative.
But you watch that, and if you watched that without being influenced by these phony pundits.
Don’t forget folks. They have been calling us wrong from the beginning. They have been calling us wrong from June 16th. We had no chance. We were running against professionals. We were running against senators and governors and we had no chance. Right? And then one by one. Boom. Boom.
And it used to be great. I used to watch these characters on television. “Donald Trump has not won 25%.” That was early. I said you know you have 17 people in the race right. Then they go, two weeks later, another victory. Another one. Another one. They say “Donald Trump has not won 38%.” Then I had one where we had a lot of people left and I had 49% of the votes with a lot of people. You understand what that means…
So then we have 49% with a lot of people running. And you know, We are talking about senators. We are talking about governors. We are talking about people like Ben Carson, who are great people and who endorse me. But smart people. Good people. Ben Carson, by the way, great guy.
But they said, and I will never forget it. 49% with many people, and they said to me. They said it right over the television. “But Donald Trump has not hit 50% yet”. How the hell do you hit 50% when you have like 11 people left?
But then we lost a couple more. Very sad, very sad to watch. We were all broken up. Right? Because I guarantee most of the people in this room were with us from the beginning. So we were all broken up. Really.
And then we started getting 52%. 58%. 66%. 78%. 82%. And they just didn’t know what was going on.
And now they said, with crooked Hillary Clinton. That’s all we have left is crooked Hillary.
I mean, here’s a woman that is supposed to fight Putin. Here’s a woman who’s supposed to fight trade deals in China. They’re ripping us like nobody has ever ripped us in the history of the world.
Here’s a woman that is supposed to be fighting Putin. Here is a woman that has given Barack Obama such bad advice, that I guarantee you, if he had the choice to do all over again – go back years – he would have never picked her for Secretary of State. She’s been a disaster. Everything she has done has been bad. It’s ended in huge financial loss and death, and I mean death on both sides.

You look at what’s going on in the Middle East when they bomb these cities and they’re leveled. You can imagine how many people died. She has been a disaster.
But here’s a woman, she’s supposed to fight all of these different things, and she can’t make it 15 feet to her car. Give me a break. Give me a break. Give me a break!
She’s home resting right now. She’s getting ready for her next speech, which is going to be about 15 minutes and it’s going to be in two or three days.
Folks, we need stamina. We need energy. We need people that are going to turn deals around.
We can’t let China take advantage of us anymore.
And we have the piggy bank, we have the advantage.
By the way, don’t worry. You know they like to talk about temperament. You know that’s a word they got from Madison Avenue. “Let’s see. How can we attack Trump?”
I have a great temperament. I have, in my opinion, it’s like one of my strongest things. I have a winning temperament. But you know how they choose it. We have a winning temperament because our country doesn’t win anymore.
Now, she’s got bad temperament. She can be crazy. She could actually be crazy.
Let me tell you. Did you see..because all the members are going to vote…you know, the top guys are going to be with her because the top people, you know…we’ll tell you about that some day.
The AFL-CIO. How many members here are in the AFL-CIO? Many? All right. Not too many. Where are you?
But the top people are usually against…and the unions, they’re going to be with me because I’m going to produce jobs. We’re going to build our infrastructure and rebuild our infrastructure. She wouldn’t know where to begin. She wouldn’t know where to begin.
So I only say this, look, we need somebody who is strong. We need somebody that knows what they’re doing. We’re going to bring the greatest people.
So we have now, in fact, it’s going to be announced next week, some additional 200 plus admirals and generals supporting us, 17 winners of the Congressional Medal of Honor, the recipients, these great recipients of the Congressional…17.
Almost every police organization in the country. I mean, you take a look. Law and order and justice. Law and order and justice. The border patrol. ICE.
I mean, we have so many thousands and millions and millions of people.
And I’ll tell you with the unions. We have the support of the people underneath the boss that sit up there with their million dollar salaries and they work with the Democrats but they don’t get anything. But we have the support of the people within the unions. We have the support.
You watch what’s going to happen.
And we have the support of the Hispanics and the African-Americans because they are tired of being ripped off and taken advantage of. Believe me. You watch.
They’re going to have some big beautiful surprises on Nov. 8th, folks.
Hillary Clinton all but said that most of the country is racist, including the men and women of law enforcement. She said that the other night.
Did anybody like Lester Holt? Did anybody question her when she said that? No, she said it the other night.
You’re not a diehard Clinton fan. You’re not a supporter.
From day one, Hillary Clinton thinks that you’re a defective person. That’s what she’s going on around saying.
How on earth can Hillary Clinton try to lead this country when she has nothing but contempt for the people who live in the country? She’s got contempt.
First of all, she’s been in so many scandals, and she’s been caught cheating so much.
And one of the worst things I’ve ever witnessed as a citizen of the United States, was last week when the FBI Director was trying so hard to explain how she got away with what she got away with because she should be in prison.
Let me tell you, she should be in prison.

And she’s being totally protected by The New York Times and The Washington Post and all of the media and CNN – Clinton News Network – which nobody is watching anyways. So what difference does it make? Don’t even watch it.
But she’s being protected by as many of these groups.
And I’ll tell you what, it’s not like “Oh gee, do you think she’s guilty.” They’ve actually admitted she’s guilty, and then she lies and lies. 33,000 emails deleted, bleached, acid washed and then takes her phones and they hammer the hell out of them.
How many people have acid washed or bleached a Tweet? How many that you deleted? So you delete it but that’s not good enough.
Now we got… now this is getting crazy.
Our country is becoming a third world country, and I’ll tell you, you have great, great people in the Justice Department. Great great people in the FBI. Great great people. And they’re embarrassed by what’s going on. They are embarrassed by what’s going on. Believe me.
Just like you’re embarrassed and I’m embarrassed.
Hillary Clinton slanders and attacks anyone who wants to put America first, whether they’re [inaudible…] what she said about Bernie voters, amazing.
Like the European Union, she wants to erase our borders, and she wants to do it for her donors, and she wants people to pour into our country without knowing who they are.
And you want to see problems? You watch.
These special interests pay her for speeches and she’s a lousy speaker. They pay her foundation. They pay her husband. In return they get your jobs. They get your jobs.
And you’re standing here from Pennsylvania, you’re standing here right now, and I’ll tell you what’s happened. People are negotiating and owners of companies are negotiating to move your companies out to Mexico and other places.
You watch, and it’s getting worse. It’s not getting better; it’s getting worse.
And you’re unsuspecting. Right now you say to your wife, “Let’s go to a movie after Trump,” but you won’t do that because you’ll be so high and so excited that no movie is going to satisfy you. Okay? No movie.
You know why? Honestly, because they don’t make movies like they used to. Am I right? What a difference.
Like I’ve been saying all week, when it comes to Hillary Clinton, all you have to do is these three words – follow the money.
One in three companies that lobbied for TPP passage donated to the Clinton Foundation as much as $67 million dollars.
Nine companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP gave Hillary Clinton $2.7 million dollars for speeches. Now she does them for free and very few people show up.
When she went to Pennsylvania last week. Did you see her? It was a small room. They couldn’t fill the seats. Look at this place. Look at that.
Hey media, turn your cameras over there. Turn your cameras over there. They don’t do it. They never turn the cameras. The only time they turn the cameras because they’re dishonest as hell.
And you know, they don’t realize one thing, if they showed the kind of… look at that all the way out to the door way past it and people outside.
If they showed the kind of crowds we have, which people can hear, you know it’s interesting. You can hear the crowd when you hear the television. You can hear the crowd, but if they showed it, it would be better television. But they don’t know much about that but it would actually be better television.
So three TPP member countries gave $6 and $15 million dollars to Clinton.
At least four lobbyist who are actively lobbying for TPP passage have raised more that $800,000 for her campaign.
I’m just telling you Pennsylvania. We’re going to make it. We’re going to make it, but we’re going to make it.
We’re going to make it if we have Pennsylvania that’s for sure. That would make it easy.
But I’m just telling you, you cannot let this pass. Not to pass.

It’s been it’s been the worst probably ever made, not in this country, anywhere in the world.
It cleaned out New England. It cleaned out big portions of Pennsylvania. It cleaned out big portions of Ohio, and North Carolina, and South Carolina. You can’t let it happen.
And these bloodsuckers want it to happen. They’re politicians that are getting taken care of by people that want it to happen. Other countries want it to happen because it’s good for them, but it’s not good for us.
So, hopefully, you’re not going to let it happen.
Whatever Hillary’s donors want, they get. They own her.
On Nov. 8th, we’re going to end Clinton corruption.
Hillary Clinton, dishonest person, is an insider fighting for herself and for her friends.
I’m an outsider fighting for you.
And by the way, just in case you’re not aware, I used to be an insider, but I thought this was the right thing to do. This is the right thing to do. Believe me.
For decades we’ve talked about the corruption, incompetence, and failures of our leaders.
2016, our long-awaited chance. It’s going to be our long-awaited chance to bring about real change, not Obama change, but real change.
And remember this: Hillary Clinton will be four more years of Barack Obama. And maybe worse. And actually maybe worse.
We can’t let that happen. You’re not going to have a country left.
If you do this one simple thing, you can deliver justice for every single person who has been wronged by the system. You have to show up and vote.
When you cast that ballot, just picture a Wall Street board room filled with special interest, who’ve been bleeding our country, who’ve been bleeding Pennsylvania, who’ve been taking your jobs. Take a look on their faces, and you will see smart people that know the game, but people that want to take your jobs and want to take your money. To them I say, “You’re fired!”
Oh, I could be doing The Apprentice right now. I could be. Somehow–and I loved it. 14 seasons. How good was that? Tremendous success. They wanted to extend. I could be doing The Apprentice now. Somehow I think this is a little bit more important, do we agree? Just a little bit?
And to the millions of unemployed Americans, we’re going to say the two words that I really love. You know what they are? You’re hired! You are hired.
I’m not a politician. I have no special interest. My only loyalty, and I mean this, I didn’t need to do this, folks, believe me. This is tough work.
This is a little bit like a lot of the people in this room, for 17, 18, and even 20 years, you had a better job 20 years ago than you have now. You got more money. Better job.
Now you have a lot of years. You get less money. In many cases you’re working two jobs and three jobs. So you’re working harder, you’re older, and you’re making less money. Supposed to be the other way around.
But the only thing I can say to you is I’m also working harder. This is hard work.
When they told me outside, “Sir, your helicopter cannot land tonight. The weather is terrible.” I said, “How many people are out there?” They said, “At least 15,000.” I said, “Are you crazy? Land the helicopter.”
No, there’s no way we were going to miss it. And these are amazing people. We have amazing people in our country. I mean, we’re going bring our country together everywhere.
So my only loyalty is to you. This is my loyalty. I don’t care about my company at that point. My kids will run it. My executives will run it.
We built a great, great–this is a great company. Some of the greatest real estate assets in the world.

You know, they say, “Oh, maybe you have a conflict.” Yeah. If I do a great job as president, they’ll probably be more valuable. Right? That’s a conflict. But that’s like a good conflict, isn’t it?
So, we need proper thinking. Our country doesn’t.
Can you imagine somebody saying $400 million in cash or $1.7 billion in cash or 800 people and now 1,700 people for deportation now coming back as citizens, not legally – as citizens?
Hillary Clinton’s only loyalty is to her financial contributors and to herself.
I don’t even think she’s loyal to Bill, if you want to know the truth.
And really, folks. Really. Why should she be, right? Why should she be?
The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that ship your jobs to other countries, they are donating to crooked Hillary Clinton.
The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class. And by the way, we have middle class. We have really rich people. We have people that aren’t so rich. We have poor people. We have everybody here. We have highly educated people.
I know two of them. And I mean. They are slightly, I said they’re here. They have too much education. They would have done better with a little bit less. Oh he’s angry at me and that’s okay.
But we have everybody. But we have the most loyal people and everybody says it. We have the people that are going to get out and vote. We have the people no matter what happens they’re out there with us because they know what we’re doing is going to be so great for our country.
The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy – and that’s what they’re doing – they’re giving to Hillary Clinton. You see it all the time.
The special interests who want to open borders, they’re donating to Hillary Clinton.
Follow the money. In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million dollars in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds.
Now look, here’s a a person who’s only worked for government essentially. Right? And now they’re worth 2$50 million dollars, folks.
Now it’s not like they built a big project and they put a lot of people to work.
They say she’s worth $200 to 250 million. Okay. Give me a break. How do you do that? How do you do that? She’s worth $250 million. You know how that happened. She and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill left the Oval Office.
The same groups paying Bill and Hillary… for their speeches will now be the federal government.
So they’re making speeches. They’re getting paid. They’re lobbying the government. That’s nice.
22 groups paid Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary was Secretary of State.
$250 million dollars. Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks. She put the Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance she’d put the Oval Office up for sale too. Believe me.
She deleted and bleached 33,000 e-mails after getting a congressional subpoena.
So here’s the story, folks. If you’re in a deal and Mr. Smith is suing you and they want your records and your e-mails and everything. And you say, “Well, I don’t wanna give them.” But you know, you have, a court order. That’s just a court order. This isn’t a congressional. It’s a court order. You have to give them.
And here’s what happens if you don’t give them, if you get rid of them – meaning delete them and do what she did – they put you in jail. You know, they put you in jail.
She got a congressional subpoena. I can’t believe it. I talk about it. But the FBI doesn’t do anything and the Justice Department doesn’t do anything.
And then Clinton, Bill, meets with the attorney general in her plane for 39 minutes. And he said they’re talking about golf and their grandchildren. 39 minutes.
I give two minutes to golf and two or three minutes to the grandchildren.

And he was supposedly in Arizona – just happened to be playing golf. But I think it was 114 degrees that day. It’s very hot.
I love Arizona. One of my favorite places but it’s very hard to play when the temperature goes over 100 degrees. Okay? So he was there to play golf. But nobody saw him play golf. Did anybody see him playing golf?
He just happen to be standing on the runway when this plane came by. “Oh, hi!”
Hey, I’ve had a plane for a long time and nobody’s ever done that in years.
Does it happen that way? What a rigged system.
And what’s taking place is horrible.
And I’ll tell you – and I said before – this is all a great embarrassment to our great country. This is a great embarrassment.
And people who have done 5% of what she did are suffering grave, grave consequences. You see what’s happening to them. The mother crying because of the way they’re treating her boy who did nothing by comparison and didn’t mean to do it.
You see what’s going on. General Petraeus. You see what happened to him -destroyed his life, destroyed his life. And it was a tiny, tiny piece compared to what she’s done.
Then she’s taken 13 phones and they’re missing and they were destroyed – many of them or some of them – with a hammer.
Foreign enemies with easy access were able to – I don’t know if they did – hack her server. How about the server? How about the server put in the basement?
Lies to Congress under oath about turning over her work-related emails.
Her staffers taking the Fifth Amendment. And her ring leaders getting immunity deals – five immunity deals. There’s nobody left except her. Except her.
She hasn’t got immunity yet. I wonder if Obama is going to give her immunity. Interesting. She hasn’t gotten immunity yet. She’s the only one.
Did anybody ever see so many people get immunity? Everybody. You’re guilty, you’re guilty. We’ll give everybody immunity – everyone.
Why do you need to investigate it if everyone’s going to get immunity. Right?
But she hasn’t gotten it yet. What are her chances of getting immunity from President Obama? It’s going to be very interesting. It’s going to be very interesting.
Clinton and her cronies will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to enrich themselves and keep their grip on power.
The American people have had it with years and decades of Clinton corruption and scandals.
Remember, he got impeached for lying. You remember what he lied about. But he got impeached for lying. He can’t practice law. Can’t be a lawyer. He was a lawyer. Can’t be a lawyer. Everyone forgets.
We want to take our country back, folks. We want to take our country back.
Look at Whitewater. Look at the cattle deal she made.
A friend of mine in the cattle business they said it’s the single greatest deal there percentage wise.
I mean, she made a percentage gain. I think it’s got to be some kind of a record in the history of the cattle business. I guess she knows a lot about cattle.
Now, it’s a very serious thing. We have a very, very serious thing happening right now to our country.
And I’ll tell you who’s leading it. These people back here all of those cameras, they’re leading it because they’re letting her get away with murder. They’re protecting her. They’re protecting her.
So we’re tired of the lies, tired of the trivial politics, tired of being talked down to, look down upon, and treated like second class citizens. It’s not going to happen anymore.
This will be the year the American people say enough is enough. Enough is enough.
Hillary Clinton has been a total disaster for so many communities, but especially so important, for the African-American communities.
I don’t think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton. They’re too smart, and they know they’ve been used for years and years and years.
They also know that she’ll do nothing for them once the election’s over.

She never does, and that’s never going to change.
Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men “super predators.” That’s what she called them.
To the African-American community, let me ask you this one question: Are you better off than you were eight years ago?
Look, for instance, at our inner cities. Look at what’s going on. Look at what’s going on. Massive levels of poverty, crime that’s out of control, no education, no jobs, tremendous joblessness. People walk to the office, they walk to get a loaf of bread, they get shot. Their child gets shot. This has been going on for decades and decades.
Hillary Clinton and people that think like her – and I say this to the African American community, I say it to the Hispanic community – vote for Donald Trump. What the hell do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?
I will fix it. I will fix it. I’ll bring jobs. I’ll bring great education. I’ll bring safe neighborhoods.
If you keep voting for the same people, you’ll keep getting the same horrible results.
Take a look at what’s going on on the streets. Take a look at Charlotte. Take a look at Baltimore. Take a look at Ferguson.
Take a look at what’s happening out on the streets of our inner cities. Look at Chicago. Thousands and thousands of shootings, 3,000 shootings since Jan.1st.  That’s not a long time ago.
It’s worse than war zones. In many cases, you have cities, inner cities, that are worse than war zones and more dangerous than some war zones.
A Trump administration will bring prosperity to all of our people. My economic agenda can be summed up in three such beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs!
We’re going to massively reduce taxes for working and middle-class Americans. Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be immediately eliminated. We’re going to create jobs.
The total catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.
We will lift the restrictions on American energy, including clean coal and shale energy right here in Pennsylvania.
And we will take care of our miners, which Hillary Clinton says she wants to put our mines and our miners out of business. She said that. She wants to put our mines and our miners out of business. Not going to happen, folks.
She also wants to shut down production of shale energy. Not going happen.
We’re going to put the miners back to work. We’re going to unleash the power of shale energy, adding another $50 billion to Pennsylvania’s economy.
We’re going to protect that over 5,000 farms in Lancaster, which I know very well. I was here so much.
And by protection, that includes lower taxes, less regulation, better trade deals, and more affordable energies.
How many farmers do we have here in Lancaster? Raise your hand. Not that – Yeah but a lot of people are employed by those farms, right?
Those farmers – are they rich people or are the regulations–? He goes not so good. We’re going to make it good for everybody.
Let me pause briefly to discuss a very heartbreaking topic.
As most as you know, tomorrow is the 10th anniversary of the Nickel Mines school shooting. Tonight, when you say your prayers, I ask you to remember those five young beautiful girls and their families.
Another issue we’re going to deal with is, in certain ways, so important.
But when I tell you about what I just did, that is a special group of people. So say prayers please, okay?
Just remember those people and what they went through, and remember those families.

Remember those families.
So we’re going to deal with trade. We’re going to deal with disastrous trade deals like NAFTA that have crushed industry in Pennsylvania. We’re going to renegotiate that. Going to make them great deals or we’re going to terminate them. Start all over.
We will come out so far ahead. We lost so much money, so many jobs.
Your state has lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was enacted, a Bill Clinton signed deal supported heavily by crooked Hillary Clinton.
Jobs are moving to Mexico including 300 jobs that left in recent years from the Hershey plant.
You’ve lost one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization – another deal pushed by Bill and supported by Hillary.
Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for those global special interests trying to strip our country of its wealth, its jobs, its status as a sovereign nation.
And we have been stripped. Folks, we don’t make anything anymore. We don’t make anything. We’re going to start making things.
We’re not going to let countries like China devalue their currency and have trade deficits of $400 and $500 billion a year. We’re not going to let that happen.
She’s a globalist who makes a living taking jobs from our country and giving them to foreign countries. Now, she’s not going to tell you that but that’s what’s going to happen.
I’m not running to be president of the world. I’m running to be president of the United States of America and represent you.
Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never seemed to happen?
When was the last time we had a victory? Think of it. A massive company coming into town. When was the last time?
You don’t have victories. We can’t defeat ISIS. And by the way. By the way, just so you know. Our military is depleted. We’re going to build up our military. We are going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
It’s because the financial interests who control our politics and our media don’t want these changes to happen.
I am an agent of change. We’re going to make great change for our country.
Hillary Clinton’s been there for 30 years.
And you know, when I was up on the stage, on Monday night, I said to myself – it was sort of strange. All these people. I figured like a 100 million people, right? I had a bad mic. I’m thinking about all this and all of a sudden it comes to me. It’s like a moment of clarity. More than any other time.
She says, “I’m going to do this. I’m going to do that. I’m gonna…”
She’s been here for 30 years. Why hasn’t she done it? She’s not going to do anything. She’s never done anything meaningful. Never.
Her only legacy is death, tremendous financial loss, and failure.
Her policies gave us the disasters in Iraq, in Libya and Syria. Her policies unleashed ISIS.
Now remember, the way she got out of Iraq left a tremendous vacuum from which ISIS was formed.
Now I said that – and this character, Lester Holt. I mean, take a look. You’ve got to study that tape. He came at me every time. And I was right.
With her, when she said things that were wrong. He didn’t come after her.
And now she wants 550% increase in Syrian refugees to pour into our country. And she doesn’t even say the words radical Islamic terrorism nor does President Obama.
Her policies gave us that disastrous deal with Iran – one of the worst deals, one of the dumbest things I’ve ever seen of any kind.
At home, look at how she failed upstate New York. She promised, just like she is now, jobs, jobs. She doesn’t know the first thing about jobs.
I’ve created thousands and thousands of jobs. That’s what I do. I create jobs.
She promised 200 000 jobs but instead more people left. And she failed – a tremendous failure.
Manufacturing jobs in upstate New York are down nearly 40% from the time she was elected.

Hillary Clinton is there for only one reason – to protect those special interest and those donors and her own money.
Our campaign is taking on big business, big media, and big donors.
We know how to do it. You know how you do it? With massive rallies like this. They can’t compete with us. They can’t.
My campaign is powered by my money. My money and by small dollar donations from hard working patriots like all of you. Every dollar brings us closer to taking our country back.
And we’ve raised a tremendous amount of money. The day after the debate, $18 million came in to our coffers. Think of that. $18 [million]. That was our all time record.
I guess they thought I did good in the debate but we got tremendous money came in. And we’re raising tremendous money in $61 numbers
Because all of you and all of our great volunteers across Pennsylvania, some of which are here tonight, standing right in the front row, we’ve knocked on over 100,000 doors in the state of Pennsylvania, and believe me, those people like us knocking on their doors. Over 100,000 doors they’ve knocked on. Raise your hands, those people that are working with us. Raise. They’ve been unbelievable. Thank you, man. Unbelievable. We’re going to have a big victory.
You have 38 days until the election. 38 days to change the future of our country and the world. You have 38 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true.
Do not let this opportunity slip away or be wasted. You will never, ever have this chance again. Not going to happen again.
In four years, you’re not going to be able to do it.
You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman, and child in this nation.
The arrogance of Washington D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter. Watch.
It happened in Europe, Brexit, and it’s going to continue to happen.
And I predicted Brexit. Remember, I predicted. Everybody said, “What does Trump know?” but I have a lot of things over there, and I said, “You know what? There’s a bad feeling going on here”. And I predicted Brexit, and everybody said, “He’s crazy! What does he know.” Then after I turned out to be right, nobody said I predicted it.
On Nov. 8th, we’re going to show the whole world that America is back – bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
And just to finish up, here’s just a few of the great things that will happen for your country.
You are going to see your taxes substantially lowered. She wants to raise your taxes. Tremendous tax decrease.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation. She wants to increase regulations.
We want to repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare.
We want to make child care more affordable. My daughter, Ivanka is so strong and she’s going to be here next week to speak.
We’re going to end Common Core. We’re going to provide school choice to every low-income child in America – African-American children, Hispanic children. We’re going to get great education for people that will never get it under our system.
We’re going to end illegal immigration. We’re going to have a strong border.
Oh! By the way, people are going to come into our country but they’re going to come into our country legally. Legally.
We’re going to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country. Hillary wants to let them come pouring in. We can’t do that, sorry.
We’re going to save the Second Amendment, which is under siege.
And another one that endorsed me is The National Rifle Association, the NRA. Wow. They’ll be happy to see that. They’re going to be happy to see that. They’re incredible people and they love the country.

Wayne and Chris, these are incredible people that truly love the country.
So, by the way, if you’re supporters of the Second Amendment, you’ve got to get out and vote. Sorry.
Support the men and women of law enforcement, we have to.
And we’re going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools, and hospitals.
American cars will travel the roads. American cars will soar in the skies. And American ships that we make – that we make – will patrol the seas.
Pennsylvania steel with build this country like it built the Empire State Building many years ago.
And Pennsylvania steel and the incredible steel workers will send new skyscrapers into the clouds.
American hands will rebuild this nation, and American energy, mined by our miners and other American sources, including right here in Pennsylvania, so important, will power our nation.
American workers will be hired to do the job, and we will start making things again and we will start winning again.
We will put new Pennsylvania steel into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of our nation, and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
On Nov. 8th, a new bright dawn begins for our country. Pennsylvania, you have no idea the importance.
Crooked Hillary is spending tens of millions of dollars on Wall Street money running commercials about me that are false.
Well, they’re mostly false, yeah, a little truth every once in a while.
So many commercials. A friend of mine called up. He said “There’s nothing else but those commercials. They’re driving me crazy. And Donald it’s not you.” That’s true, it’s not me. It’s not me.
But she’s spending tens of millions of dollars. It’s a disgrace.
And much of those commercials, I will tell you, is false.
So we’re going to do something that, I think, the country has never seen before. This movement is special. The people are special.
We are going to make America wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We are going to make America powerful again. We are going to make America safe again.
And we are going to make America great again.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you, everybody. Thank you. Get out and vote. God bless you.

You know and I moved on her actually. You know she was down on Palm Beach.
I moved on her and I failed. I’ll admit it.
I did try and fuck her. She was married.
No, no, Nancy. No this was – and I moved on her very heavily. In fact, I took her out furniture shopping.
She wanted to get some furniture. I said I’ll show you where they have some nice furniture.
I took her out furniture. I moved on her like a bitch. But I couldn’t get there, and she was married.
Then all of a sudden I see her. She’s now got the big phony tits and everything. She’s totally changed her look.
Look at you. You are a pussy.
Maybe it’s a different one.
Yeah, that’s her. With the gold.
I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her.
You know, I’m automatically attracted to beautiful – I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait.
And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.
Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything.
Oh, it looks good…Oh, nice legs, huh?

Wow! What a group! What a group!
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, folks.
Thank you, folks, it’s great to be right here in Florida which we love.
In 26 days, we are going to win this great, great state and we are going to win the White House.
Our movement is about replacing a failed and corrupt – and when I say corrupt, I’m talking about totally corrupt – political establishment with a new government controlled by you, the American people.
There is nothing the political establishment will not do, no lie that they won’t tell to hold their prestige and power at your expense and that’s what’s been happening.
The Washington establishment and the financial and media corporations that fund it exist for only one reason – to protect and enrich itself.
The establishment has trillions of dollars at stake in this election.
As an example, just one single trade deal they’d like to pass involves trillions of dollars controlled by many countries, corporations, and lobbyists.
For those who control the levers of power in Washington and for the global special interests, they partner with these people that don’t have your good in mind.
Our campaign represents a true existential threat like they haven’t seen before.
This is not simply another four year election. This is a crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine whether or not we the people reclaim control over our government.
The political establishment that is trying to stop us is the same group responsible for our disastrous trade deals, massive illegal immigration, and economic and foreign policies that have bled our country dry.

The political establishment has brought about the destruction of our factories and our jobs as they flee to Mexico, China, and other countries all around the world.
Our just announced job numbers are anemic. Our gross domestic product or GDP is barely above 1% and going down.
Workers in the United States are making less than they were almost 20 years ago and yet they are working harder. But so am I working harder. That I can tell you.
It’s a global power structure that is responsible for the economic decisions that have robbed our working class, stripped our country of its wealth and put that money into the pockets of a handful of large corporations and political entities.
Just look at what this corrupt establishment has done to our cities like Detroit, Flint, Michigan, and rural towns in Pennsylvania, Ohio, North Carolina and all across our country. Take a look at what’s going on.
They’ve stripped these towns bare and raided the wealth for themselves and taken our jobs away out of our country, never to return unless I’m elected president.
The Clinton machine is at the center of this power structure. We’ve seen this first hand in the Wikileaks documents in which Hillary Clinton meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty in order to enrich these global financial powers, her special interest friends, and her donors.
So true.
Honestly, she should be locked up. Should be. Should be locked up.
And likewise, the emails show that the Clinton machine is so closely and irrevocably tied to the media organizations that she – listen to this – is given the questions and answers in advance of her debate performance with Bernie Sanders.
Hillary Clinton is also given approval and veto power over quotes written about her in the New York Times. They definitely do not do that to me. That I can tell you.
And the emails show the reporters collaborate and conspire directly with the Clinton campaign on helping her win the election all over.
With their control over our government at stake, with trillions of dollars on the line, the Clinton is determined to achieve the destruction of our campaign. Not going to happen, which has now become a great, great movement, the likes of which our country has never seen before. Never ever.
They’ve never seen a movement like this in our country before.
Yesterday in Florida, massive crowds. People lined up outside of big arenas, not able to get in. Never happened before. It’s one of the great phenomenons, one of the great political phenomenons.
The most powerful weapon deployed by the Clintons is the corporate media – the press.
Let’s be clear on one thing. The corporate media in our country is no longer involved in journalism.

They’re a political special interest, no different than any other lobbyist or other financial entity with a total political agenda and the agenda is not for you, it’s for themselves.
And their agenda is to elect crooked Hillary Clinton at any cost, at any price, no matter how many lives they destroy.
For them, it’s a war, and for them nothing at all is out of bounds.
This is a struggle for the survival of our nation. Believe me.
And this will be our last chance to save it on Nov. 8th. Remember that.
This election will determine whether we are a free nation or whether we have only the illusion of democracy but are in fact controlled by a small handful of global special interests, rigging the system. And our system is rigged.
This is reality. You know it. They know it. I know it. And pretty much the whole world knows it.
The establishment and their media enablers wield control over this nation through means that are very well-known.
Anyone who challenge their control is deemed a sexist, a racist, a xenophobe, and morally deformed.
They will attack you. They will slander. They will seek to destroy your career and your family. They will seek to destroy everything about you, including your reputation.
They will lie, lie, lie, and then again they will do worse than that. They will do whatever is necessary.
The Clintons are criminals. Remember that. They’re criminals.
This is well-documented and the establishment that protects them has engaged in a massive cover-up of widespread criminal activity at the State Department and the Clinton Foundation in order to keep the Clintons in power.
Never in history have we seen such a cover-up as this.
One that includes the total destruction of 33,000 emails, 13 iPhones, some by hammer, laptops, missing boxes of evidence, and many, many other things.
People who are capable of such crimes against our nation are capable of anything.
And so now we address the slander and libels that was just last night thrown at me by the Clinton machine and the New York Times and other media outlets as part of a concerted, coordinated and vicious attack.
It’s not coincidence that these attacks come at the exact same moment and all together at the same time as Wikileaks releases documents exposing the massive international corruption of the Clinton machine, including 2,000 more emails just this morning.
These vicious claims about me of inappropriate conduct with women are totally and absolutely false. And the Clintons know it and they know it very well.

These claims are all fabricated. They’re pure fiction and they’re outright lies.
These events never ever happened and the people that said meekly fully understand. You take a look at these people. You study these people, and you’ll understand also.
The claims are preposterous, ludicrous, and defy truth, common sense, and logic.
We already have substantial evidence to dispute these lies and it will be made public in an appropriate way and at an appropriate time.
These lies come from outlets whose past stories and past claims have already been discredited.
The media outlets did not even attempt to confirm the most basic facts because even a simple investigation would have shown that these were nothing more than false smears.
Six months ago, the failing New York Times wrote a massive story attacking me and the central witness they used said the story was false, that she was quoted inaccurately. She said that I was a great guy. She had great courage, I’ll be honest with you. She was an amazing person and never made those remarks. That I was a great guy and never made those remarks.
And when I read the story, I was sort of surprised. How could she say that? And she didn’t say it. We demanded a retraction but they refused to print it.
Just like they refused to print the comments from another source who praised me in her book or the words of another wonderful woman who said really nice things about me. They put other statements that she didn’t say. They misrepresented.
The story was a fraud and a big embarrassment to the New York Times and it was a big front page story – front page, center, color picture – a disgrace. They were very embarrassed.
It will be part of the lawsuit we are preparing against them.
Now today, the same two discredited writers who should have been fired from the New York Times for what they did tell another totally fabricated and false story that supposedly took place on an airplane more than 30 years ago.
Another ridiculous tale. No witnesses. No nothing.
Then there was a writer from People Magazine who wrote a story on Melania and myself on our first anniversary. The story was beautiful. It was beautiful. It was lovely.
But last night we hear that after 12 years – this took place 12 years ago this story – a new claim that I made inappropriate advances during the interview to this writer.
And I ask a very simple question. Why wasn’t it part of the story that appeared 20 or 12 years ago? Why wasn’t it a part of the story? Why didn’t they make it part of the story?
I was one of the biggest stars on television with The Apprentice and it would have been one of the biggest stories of the year.
Think of it. She’s doing this story on Melania, who’s pregnant at the time, and Donald Trump – our one-year anniversary. And she said I made inappropriate advances.
And by the way, the area was a public area. People all over the place.
Take a look. You take a look. Look at her. Look at her words. You tell me what you think. I don’t think so. I don’t think so.
But it is amazing. Doing a story – a love story – on how great we are together. And by the way, we’re stronger today than we were ever were before, which is great.
But it’s a love story. It’s a love story on our one-year. And if I did that, she would have added that. It would have been the headline.

And who would have done that if you’re doing this and you’re one of the top shows on television?
These people are horrible people. They’re horrible, horrible liars.
And interestingly, it happens to appear 26 days before our very important election. Isn’t that amazing?
This invented account has already been debunked by eyewitnesses who were there. They were there.
The very witness identified by the author has said the story is totally false. By the way, this was a room that everybody can see in. It’s got glass walls. At Mar-e-Lago. It’s got glass walls.
Can you believe this? Why wasn’t it in the story? Biggest story of the year?
This weekend, the New York Times published a full-page hit piece with another claim from an individual who has been totally discredited based on the many, many emails and letters she has sent to our office over the years looking for work. “Donald is great.” Wanting to go to my rallies.
But the New York Times and this was a full op-ed piece refused to use the evidence that we presented, refused to use. If they used it, if they would have looked, they would have said “Oh, there’s no story here.”
Others in the media, which almost surprises me because they’re dishonest also, were presented with this story by this woman numerous times and they got very excited. But after seeing the evidence that we immediately give them, all of them refused to write the story. There was no story.
The Times, though, they didn’t want to say it. They just wrote the story. And this was a full page opposite the editorials.
This is part of a concerted effort led by the New York Times and others – now the New York Times is fighting desperately for its relevance and its financial survival and it probably won’t be around in a few years based on its financial outlook, which wouldn’t be a bad thing if you want to know the truth.
But as it winds down its years and is becoming more and more problematic, it’s gotten more and more vicious, more and more vile, and even the other mainstream media is talking about the single greatest pile-on in history and all between now and Nov. 8th.
And you have to see the stories they’ve written. It’s one after another after another. And facts mean nothing. Third rate journalism.
The great editors from the past from the New York Times and others, ladies and gentlemen, are spinning in their grave.
I will not allow the Clinton machine to turn our campaign into a discussion of their slanders and lies but will remain focused on the issues facing the American people.
Thank you. Thank you.
But let me state this as clearly as I can. These attacks are orchestrated by the Clintons and their media allies.
The only thing Hillary Clinton has going for herself is the press. Without the press, she is absolutely zero.
And you saw that the other night in the debate where some people said she made virtually a fool of herself. This is not presidential material, believe me.
What they say is false and slanderous in virtually every respect. We are now less than a month from the most important election of our lifetime. Indeed, one of the most important elections in the history of our country.
And the polls are showing us in a dead heat. Don’t believe what you hear.

The new, highly respected Rasmussen poll just came out this morning. Just released. Shows up nationally 2 points ahead Trump.
Just came out. So now, the Clinton machine has put forward a small handful of people out of tens of thousands of people over the years that I’ve met, that I’ve worked with, that I’ve employed in order to make wild and false allegations that fail to meet even the most basic test of common sense. Not even common sense.
Again, this is nothing more than an attempt to destroy our movement and for the Clintons to keep their corrupt control over our government.
When I declared my candidacy I knew what bad shape our country was in. And believe me, all you have to do is look at world events.
All you have to do is look at the $1.7 billion that we sent to Iran in cash. In cash.
All you have to do is see the way ISIS was created in the vacuum left by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama out of Iraq.
All you have to do – all you have to do – is look at the 800 people that were very, very not good for our nation. The were going to be deported. Lo and behold, instead of being deported, they were made citizens of the United States just recently. And lo and behold, sadly, the 800 people is wrong. It turned out to be close to 1,800 people.
Our president is incompetent. All he wants to do is campaign.
And the last thing he wants to happen is to have Donald Trump terminate Obamacare and do all of the other things that are destroying.
He’s led a very divided nation and it’s only gotten worse.
And the last thing our country needs is four more years of Barack Obama, believe me.
I’ve seen firsthand the corruption and the sickness that has taken over our politics. You’ve seen it. I’ve seen it. And we’re all watching together.
They knew they would throw every lie they could at me and my family and my loved ones. They knew they would stop at nothing to try to stop me.
But I never knew, as bad as it would be, I never knew it would be this vile, that it would be this bad, that it would be this vicious.
Nevertheless, I take all these slings and arrows gladly for you. I’d take them for our movement so that we can have our country back.
Our great civilization here in America and across the civilized world has come upon a moment of reckoning.
We’ve seen it in the United Kingdom where they’ve voted to liberate themselves from global government and global trade deals and global immigration deals that have destroyed their sovereignty and have destroyed many of those nations.
But the central base of world political power is right here in America, and it is our corrupt political establishment that is the greatest power behind the efforts at radical globalization and the disenfranchisement of working people.
Their financial resources are virtually unlimited. Their political resources are unlimited. Their media resource are unmatched.
And most importantly, the depths of their immorality is absolutely unlimited.
They will allow radical Islamic terrorists to enter our country by the thousands.

They will allow the great Trojan Horse and I don’t want people looking back in 100 years and 200 years and have that story be told about us because we were led by inept, incompetent and corrupt people like Barack Obama and like Hillary Clinton.
We don’t want to be part of that history.
And by the way, President Obama should stop campaigning and start working on creating jobs, start working on getting our GDP up, start working on strengthening our borders.
The corrupt political establishment is a machine. It has no soul.
I knew these false attacks would come. I knew this day would arrive. It was only a question of when. And I knew the American people would rise above it and vote for the future they deserve.
The only thing that can stop this corrupt machine is you. The only force strong enough to save our country is us. The only people brave enough to vote out this corrupt establishment is the American people.
We are going to have a policy – America first.
They control incredibly the Department of Justice. And they even secretly meet with the Attorney General of the United States in the back of her airplane while on the runway. Remember? He was there. He was going to play golf.
“Oh gee, there’s the Attorney General. Let me go say hello. Plane’s on the runway. Let me go say hello to the Attorney General.”
He never got to play golf, I understand. And it was Arizona, a place I love but the weather was about 100 and some odd degree. No, he’s not going to play. He was never there to play golf, folks. Don’t be foolish.
They met for 39 minutes and most likely it was to discuss her reappointment in a Clinton administration as the Attorney General just prior to making a decision over whether or not to prosecute Hillary Clinton. Okay? That’s what happened. That’s called real life and that’s pretty sad.
They met for 39 minutes. Remember he said, “We talked golf and we talked about our grandchildren.”
Three minutes for the grandchildren. Two minutes for the golf.
Then they sat there then they twiddled their thumbs.
No, I believe they talked about her remaining in her position under a crooked Hillary Clinton administration. That’s what I believe. That’s what I believe, folks. That’s what I believe and I think that’s what most people in this room believe.
Likewise they have essentially corrupted the director of the FBI to the point in which stories are already saying that the great – and they are truly great – men and women who work for the FBI are embarrassed and ashamed of what he’s done to one of our truly great institutions – the FBI itself.
Hillary Clinton is guilty of all the things that Director Comey stated at his press conference and congressional hearings and far more. He stated many things but it’s far more and he knows that.

And yet after reading all of these items where she’s so guilty, he let her off the hook while other lives including General Petraeus and many others have been destroyed for doing far, far less.
This is a conspiracy against you the American people and we cannot let this happen or continue.
This is our moment of reckoning as a society and as a civilization itself.
I didn’t need to do this, folks, believe me. Believe me.
I built a great company and I had a wonderful life. I could have enjoyed the fruits and benefits of years of successful business deals and businesses for myself and for my family instead of going through this absolute horror show of lies, deceptions, malicious attacks. Who would have thought?
I’m doing it because this country has given me so much and I feel so strongly that it’s my turn to give back to the country that I love.
Many of my friends and many political experts warned me that this campaign would be a journey to hell. Said that. But they’re wrong.
It will be a journey to heaven because we will help so many people that are so desperately in need of help.
In my former life, I was an insider as much as anybody else and I knew what it’s like and I still know what it’s like to be an insider. It’s not bad. It’s not bad.
Now, I’m being punished for leaving the special club and revealing to you the terrible things that are going on having to do with our country.
Because I used to be part of the club, I’m the only one that can fix it.
I’m doing this for the people and for the movement and we will take back this country for you and we will make America great again.
The corrupt establishment knows that we are a great threat to their criminal enterprise. They know that if we win, their power is gone and it’s returned to you the people – will be.
The dark clouds hanging over our government can be lifted and replaced with a bright future.
But it all depends on whether we let the corrupt media decide our future or whether we let the American people decide our future.
If this Clinton campaign of destruction is allowed to work then, no other highly successful – and this is so true. I’ve seen this so many times and I’ve heard this all of my life. I’ve heard it all of my life.
If we let this happen, then no other highly successful person, which is what our country needs. It needs a certain thinking when you look at our trade deals that are so bad.
When you look as an example, on trade, we’re going to lose almost $800 billion this year trade deficit. Almost $800 billion.
Our debt has doubled in 7.5 years to almost $20 trillion under Obama.

No other successful person after watching this and not other very successful person will ever again ever and who can blame them? Even me, I’d say you’re right. Will ever again run for office.
I’ve heard it for years. If you’re very successful you can’t run for higher office, especially for president.
I said, I don’t care. I don’t care. I’ve done so many deals. I’ve done so well. It’s a certain mindset we need in our country at least for a period of time. We have to straighten our country out.
I will not lie to you. These false attacks are absolutely hurtful.
To be lied about, to be slandered, to be smeared so publicly and before your family that you love is very painful.
What is going on is egregious beyond any words. People that know the story, people that see the story, people that know the facts they can’t even believe it.
It’s reprehensible beyond description. It’s totally corrupt.
But I also know that it’s not about me. It’s about all of you and it’s about our country. I know that. I fully understand that. That’s why I got involved.
It’s about all of us together as a country. It’s a movement the likes of which we have never in history in this country seen before. Never in history.
Even the pundits, even the media that truly dislike Donald Trump for their own reasons will admit this is a movement the likes of which people have never seen before.
And it’s a movement about the veterans who need medical care, the mothers who’ve lost their beloved children to terrorism and to crime.
It’s about the inner cities and the border towns who desperately need our help.
It’s about the millions of jobless people in America.
It’s about the American workers who can’t get jobs because our jobs have left for Mexico and so many other countries.
This election is about the people being crushed by Obamacare.
And it’s about defeating ISIS and appointing a Supreme Court and a Supreme Court – it could be four or five – who will defend and protect our Constitution.
This election is also about so importantly to me African-American and Hispanic American people whose communities have been plunged into crime, poverty, and failing schools by the policies of crooked Hillary Clinton. Believe me, she’s crooked.
They’ve robbed these citizens of their future and if we win I will give them their hope, their jobs, their education. I give them their security back.
The inner cities – education is almost worthless. It’s horrible. We’re going to have Common Core ended. We’re going to bring education local.
But you look at the inner cities and you see bad education, no jobs, no safety. You walk to the grocery store with your child and you get shot. You walk outside to look and see what’s happening and you get shot.
In Chicago, 3,000 people have been shot since Jan. 1st. We’re not going to let that  happen.
Our inner cities are almost at an all-time low run by the Democrats for sometimes more than 100 years chain unbroken. So they have no jobs. They have horrible education. They have no safety or security.

And I say to the African-American community, what the hell do you have to lose? I will fix it. I will fix it. I will make it good. I’ll bring back our jobs. We’ll have good education. We’ll have great safety in the inner city.
And we will help the Hispanic American people who have been treated so badly and so unfairly in our nation. We will help them.
I will deliver like you’ve never seen before. I deliver. Whether people like Donald Trump or not, they all say he delivers.
Vote for Donald Trump and you’re going to see something. And you’ll be so happy. You’ll be so thrilled.
This election is about every man, woman and child in our country who deserves to live in safety, prosperity, and peace. So true.
We will rise above the lies, the smears, the ludicrous from ludicrous and very, very dishonest reporters.
We will vote for the country we want. We will vote for the future we want. We will vote for the politics we want.
And we will vote to put this corrupt government cartel out of business and out of business immediately.
We will vote for the special interests and say lots of luck but you’re being voted out of power. They betrayed our workers. They betrayed our borders. And most of all, they betrayed our freedoms.
We will save our sovereign rights as a nation. We will end the politics of profit. We will end the rule of special interests. We will end the raiding of our jobs by other countries.
We will end the total disenfranchisement of the American voter and the American worker.
Our independence day is at hand and it arrives finally on Nov. 8th.
Join me in taking back our country and creating a bright, glorious, and prosperous new future for our people. We will make America great again and it will happen quickly.
God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you. Wow. Thank you, everybody. Nice place. Plenty of room.
In 25 days, we’re going win the state of North Carolina, which I love, and we’re going to win the White House.
Early voting starts on Oct. 20th so you have to get out there but Nov. 8th. That’s our day. Nov. 8th. Right? Nov. 8th. But do the early voting.
I’d also like to take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to everyone recovering in the tragic aftermath of Hurricane Matthew. You know about it very well, unfortunately, right here.
We send our deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones. We are with you and we will always be with you and help you when needed.
So good luck to everybody.
The incredible spirit of the people in this state will power its recovery and it’s the same spirit that will rebuild our nation.
I have property in this state. This is a great state. You know my property. Beautiful property. Great employees.
In a Trump administration, we will end decades of policies that enrich special interests and foreign countries at our expense.
We’re going to take on the big media, big business, and big donors that are bleeding our country dry. We’re losing our jobs.
We’re going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, take care of our vets – our great vets – and we’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. 100%. That is a disaster.
Premiums are soaring double digits in North Carolina beyond anybody’s wildest expectations. It’s a disaster.
And you know what’s going on. Your country will be left with only one insurer. You’re going to have nothing. Everyone’s leaving. And you’re going to have one insurer. You’re going to have nobody.
Obamacare is failing. We’re going to repeal it and we’re going to replace it.
Your jobs come back under a Trump administration. Your income goes up under a Trump administration. Your taxes go way down under a Trump administration.
Your companies won’t be leaving our country under a Trump administration. They’ll be staying right here.
And believe me, there are plenty of them right now negotiating to leave. I hate to tell you that.
These are the issues that we’ll discuss at the next debate, which I look very much forward to.
Crooked Hillary is doing no more public events until after the debate. They say she’s doing debate prep but really she’s just resting. She’s resting.
For what she’s done, they should lock her up. She’s disgraceful. It’s disgraceful. Honestly, it’s disgraceful what’s going on in our country is a disgrace.
The Hillary Clinton documents released by Wikileaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake on Nov. 8th.
Wikileaks released new Clinton campaign emails revealing how friendly Hillary was with the Attorney General Loretta Lynch.
This was only months prior to Lynch’s investigation of Hillary’s illegal secret email server that gave foreign governments access to our confidential information.
This comes on the heels of disclosure that Clinton campaign was conspiring and colluding with the State Department and Justice Department over the release of her emails and the investigation into her server.

Hillary Clinton told the FBI 39 times she couldn’t remember. She couldn’t remember anything. “I couldn’t remember. I couldn’t remember.”
Or recall key events concerning her illegal email server and related misconduct.
Now, in new written testimony just out as part of the Freedom of Information Act request, Hillary Clinton has just said she couldn’t remember, recall or anything key events or key things 21 different times.
It’s one more reason that if I win, I will ask my Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor and we also have to investigate the investigation itself.
Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena. She got a subpoena from Congress and she said, “This is no good. This is terrible because those 33,000 emails had bad stuff.” And she said, “Get rid of them. Delete them. Bleach them.”
Nobody bleaches because it’s such an expensive process. She bleached. Get rid of them.
And then she made everybody get rid of iPhones, her  iPhones, and some were hammered. They were hammered to death.
All to cover up her crimes.
Yesterday, new disclosures were made showing again how Hillary Clinton’s pay for play works.
Saudi Arabia paid Bill Clinton a lot of money to make a speech and then got an arms deal from Hillary and her State Department that they were unable to get.
The nation of Qatar was also kicked in $1 million for Bill Clinton’s birthday party. So nice.
That as Wikileaks showed the Clintons ripped off the people of Haiti, that they were suffering and dying after the earthquake and her brothers on the board of a gold mine. Her brother.
But the media’s covering up for the Clintons and their many crimes against so many people.
The Wikileaks document show how the media conspires and collaborates with the Clinton campaign, including giving the questions and answers to Hillary Clinton before the debate. Okay?
What a rigged system, folks.
Last night, we had a massive crowd of over 20,000 people in Cincinnati. Filled up an arena. And the media won’t even talk about the size of the crowd, the enthusiasm of the crowd.
I watched NBC this morning, they said, “Last night, Donald Trump was in Cincinnati.”
If Hillary Clinton has 800 people, “Oh, the crowd is so big.”
It is horrible. It is really horrible.
The corrupt media is trying to do everything in their power to stop our movement. Believe me. They don’t want this happening. We have one of the great movements. We have a great movement.
We have a movement that’s never happened before.
And no paper’s more corrupt than the failing New York Times. The good news is it is failing. It won’t be around too much longer. But they are really, really bad people.
The largest shareholder in the Times is Carlos Slim. Now, Carlos Slim, as you know, comes from Mexico. He’s given many millions of dollars to the Clintons and their initiatives. So Carlos Slim, largest donor of the paper, from Mexico.
Reporters at the New York Times, they’re not journalists. They’re corporate lobbyists for Carlos Slim and for Hillary Clinton.
We’re going to let foreign corporations and their CEOs decide the outcomes of the – you just can’t do this. We can’t let this happen. We are not going to let it happen where they decide the outcome of our elections. They can’t do it and we’re not going to let it happen.
This is our last chance to save our country and reclaim it for we the people and it’s going to happen.
Oh, it’s going to happen.

As you have seen, right now I am being viciously attacked with lies and smears. It’s a phony deal.
I have no idea who these women are. Have no idea. I have no idea.
And I think you all know I have no idea because you understand me for a lot of years. Okay?
When you looked at that horrible woman last night, you said, “I don’t think so. I don’t think so.”
Whoever she is, wherever she comes from, the stories are total fiction. They’re 100% made up. They never happened. They never would happen.
I don’t think they’d happen with many people but they certainly aren’t going to happen with me.
Folks, you know, my people always say, “Oh, don’t talk about it. Talk about jobs. Talk about the economy.”
Don’t worry. Your jobs, they are going to be coming back to North Carolina like you’ve never seen. The economy is going to be good.
But I feel like I have to talk about it because you have to dispute when somebody says something.
And fortunately, we have the microphone. We can dispute. Some people can’t.
These are lies being pushed by the media and the Clinton campaign to try and keep their grip on our country.
They’re all false. They’re totally invented. Fiction. All 100% totally and completely fabricated. Never met this person, these people. I don’t know who they are. I don’t know who they are.
Think of what’s happening to our country. Think of what’s happening. I don’t know who these people are.
I look on television. I think it’s a disgusting thing and it’s being pushed. They have no witnesses. There’s nobody around. They just come out. Some are doing it for probably a little fame. They get some free fame. It’s a total set-up.
Now suddenly after many, many years phony accusers come out less than a month before one of the most important elections in the history of our country.
It also comes at a time as Wikileaks unveils horrible, horrible things about Hillary Clinton. But they’d rather talk about this.
Somebody you’ve never seen said, “Oh, in 1992, he went like this.”
One came out recently where I was sitting alone in some club. I really don’t sit alone that much. Honestly, folks, I don’t think I sit alone. I go in with groups of people. I was sitting alone by myself like this. And then I went whoa! To somebody.
I just heard this one. It’s like, it’s like unbelievable.
Even a simple investigation would have shown these allegations against me in just about cases it’s nonsense. It’s false.
An eyewitness has already debunked the People Magazine story.
Here’s my question about the dishonest writer from People Magazine. Why didn’t she write what she said happened before she wrote this story? Why didn’t she put it in the story? The story would have been one of the big stories. I was the big story of the Apprentice. Why didn’t she do it 12 years ago? 12 years ago?
She’s writing the story – no, think of this. Think of this. She’s right. She’s a liar. She is a liar. She’s writing a story. Check out her Facebook page. You’ll understand. Hey, she’s writing a story about a beautiful love story – Melania and Donald – and she said I made inappropriate move.
Now, just so you understand. That’s a big story. If I did.
She wrote the most beautiful story. Honestly, the most beautiful story. 100% story. Like beautiful.
Why wouldn’t she have put this into the story?
Now, two nights ago, I get a call, People Magazine is – it’s okay. No, it’s not okay. It’s about a story that was written 12 years ago.
She was on last night or one of the top people at People was on and he said, “No, we were just informed of it.”
Well, did you hear about it 12 years ago? Did you hear about it five years ago?
“No, no, we never – we just heard about it recently.”
These people are sick. These people are sick.
And the reason she didn’t write it 12 years ago is very simple. It never happened. Never happened. It’s a lie. It’s a lie.

And let me tell you, if it did happen, if it did happen, 100% she would have written it. It would have been the biggest story of the year. Okay?
These are all horrible lies. All fabrications. And we can’t let them change the most important election in our lifetimes.
If 5% of the people think it’s true and maybe 10% think, we don’t win.
In other words, they make up lies. They have people come around – “Oh, Donald Trump did this or that.” I never saw these people before. I don’t know who they are.
And then you watch these phony networks and dishonest networks who are 100%.
Let me tell you something about Hillary Clinton. She’s got nothing going. She’s got nothing.
The only thing she’s got going is the media. She’s got nothing going. She’s got nothing.
The other day at the debate where by the way I absolutely destroyed her, okay? Every online poll, even Time Magazine, Time Magazine’s not exactly in love with me but every online poll has us killing her.
She said, the other day I’m standing and I told you this. But I’m standing at my podium and she walks in front of me. Right? She walks in front of me. You know?
And when she walked in front of me, believe me, I wasn’t impressed.
But she walks in front and she takes a question and then she walked back and that was the end of that. No problem.
Then she said the next day I invaded her space. Give me a break.
And I was waiting for that because she had that incident once before where they made up something – some guy invaded her space. The poor guy lost the election because of it.
But I was very conscious of this so I purposely – I purposely didn’t do anything.
So – get this guy out of here. Get him out. Get out of here…
Folks, folks, that’s what’s happening to our country. That’s what’s happening. That is total disrespect for our flag. That’s what’s happening to our country. We’re going to turn it around, folks. We’re going to turn it around.
So, just to finish up, so just to finish up, you see what’s happening. The process is rigged. This whole election is being rigged.
These lies spread by the media without witnesses, without back-up or anything else, are poisoning the minds of the electorate.
No witnesses. No back-up. No anything else.
And I’m telling you, I have many top professionals. “Don’t talk about this, Donald. Nobody believes it.” I said, “Maybe some do believe it. You have to talk about it.”
Am I right? When somebody makes an accusation that you did something and you never saw this person before, it’s a lie, it’s a total lie. It’s fabrication.
Sometimes they do it for fame. Maybe they get money. Who knows? The Clinton campaign is pushing it.
The New York Times did a story on somebody where it was totally false. They knew it was totally false. We gave them the information. They wrote a whole big page about somebody where they were sending them emails and letters and everything. And then you realize, it was a one-way send, by the way. There was nothing sent back.
And you realize it was a totally phony deal. They did a whole big story on it.
They didn’t mention all of the emails. They didn’t mention everything coming my way.
And others looked at it and as bad as they were, as soon as they saw all this stuff that was sent, they immediately, immediately, decided not to do this. The New York Times did a story on it.
They read these stories and people might not know how untrue they are. It’s really a disgrace.
I’ve been saying this for a long time. The whole thing we’ve been going through – and I hate to say it.

But the whole thing we’re going through – Bernie Sanders, it was a rigged deal. The whole thing is one big fix. It’s one big fix. It’s one big, ugly lie. It’s one big fix.
The press can’t write the kind of things they write, which are lies, lies, lies. The stories are fabrications and false.
And the only thing I say is hopefully, hopefully, our patriotic movement will overcome this terrible deception.
Hopefully, our great movement and there’s never been anything like this in the United States and the only way they figured they can slow it down is to come up with people that are willing to say, “Oh, I was with Donald Trump in 1980. I was sitting with him on an airplane and he went after me on the plane.”
Yeah, I’m going to go after. Believe me, she would not be my first choice. That I can tell you. You don’t know. That would not be my first choice.
Hopefully, our great movement powered by everyday citizens will overcome the sickness that is plaguing our politics and our media.
And I’ll tell you what, our media is indeed sick and it’s making our country sick. And we’re going to stop it. We’re going to stop it, folks.
All right, let’s get on now. Let’s get on to another subject. But isn’t it good that we talk about this? Right?
Who thinks I shouldn’t talk? We’ll talk jobs. Who thinks I shouldn’t talk about it? Does anybody think that? Okay, I agree.
When somebody, you know, a long time ago, when you get hit, you hit back. You’ve got to do it. You don’t just say “Oh, I didn’t get hit. I didn’t get hit.”
When you get hit, we are destroying our country with these sick people back there and they know it better than anybody in this arena.
I ran because I knew what trouble our country was in. Our country is in tremendous trouble. You know this.
You know this in North Carolina because you see what’s happening to your jobs. They’re disappearing.
I know it’s not about me. It’s about you and that’s why I’m doing this. I didn’t need to do this.
But it’s about you. It’s about bringing our country back, making our country great again.
I’m taking these slings and arrows for you so we can have our borders, so we can get back our jobs, so we can be a safe nation again.
You know, the murder – the number of murders in our country this year went up more than they have in 45 years.
It’s true. Look, Obama is an incompetent. He’s an incompetent president. He doesn’t know what he’s doing. He’s out campaigning all day long. He’s talking about me like he knows me. I don’t know him. He doesn’t know me.
And why doesn’t some woman maybe come up and say what they say falsely about me they could say about him? They could say it about anybody. They could say it about anybody.
I’ll tell you what, he’d better be careful because they could say it about anybody. Anybody at all.
But Obama is an incompetent as a president. He’s about as bad as it gets.
Look at what’s happening. How Iran is taunting us. Look at what’s going on. Look at the world. He gives Iran $400 million in cash but it turns out to be $1.7 billion in cash. Gives them $150 billion.
This guy doesn’t know what he’s doing and it’s an embarrassment.
You look at the Middle East and it’s a blow-up. It’s a total disaster.
We have an incompetent president. I hate to say it. But it’s 100% true.
And all he’s doing instead of working on your jobs and your companies leaving for Mexico and other places, he’s campaigning for crooked Hillary. That’s all he does.
Either we win this election or we’re going to lose our country because four more years of Obama, you can’t take it.
Wikileaks documents, Hillary Clinton speaking in secret – really and you saw this too – a secret Brazilian bank.

Hillary Clinton said, “My dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade and open borders.” There goes the rest of your jobs, by the way.
There it goes. But even though she doesn’t say that but that’s what she said in a very, very secret meeting.
The emails show that behind closed doors speaking to these international bankers, Hillary Clinton’s pledged to destroy the sovereignty of the United States.
A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders better than you’ve ever seen them before.
And yes, we will build a wall. It will happen.
Crooked Hillary also wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees to pour into our country. And that’s over Obama numbers and those are thousands and thousands of people.
Even though she admitted it in private, according to Wikileaks, again, nobody’s covering Wikileaks. They’re covering somebody that I never saw before…
…That she knows that terrorists are trying to infiltrate the refugee program.
So you have terrorists coming in. She knows they’re coming in, and yet she wants to increase it.
Hillary’s support for open borders in the Middle East will put us in the same position as France with multi-generational terrorism embedded in our community and our country will never be the same.
So let me state this as clearly as I can. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
At the same time, we’re going to take care of our military and we’re going to take care of our great, great, great veterans. They’ve been treated very badly.
That includes veterans’ choice so veterans can either attend a public VA facility or if they have to wait on line like they’ve been doing sometimes for as much as seven days and then still not get proper care, they’ll go to a private medical center or they’ll go to a private or public or something. They will go outside. They’ll go to a private doctor. They’ll go to a private hospital. They’ll go to a public hospital.
We’re going to get them care and we’re going to pay for that care.
They’re not going to wait in line for seven days and die sometimes waiting in line for a simple, simple procedure or prescription. It’s not going to happen like that any longer for our veterans. Okay? Not going to happen.
And Hillary Clinton said no, no, the VA is doing a good job. Okay?
North Carolina is home to more than 100,000 active duty military personnel and almost 800,000 veterans. The military supports over 500,000 jobs in this state.
We are going to repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and we are going to rebuild the military of the United States, which is very sadly depleted.

When it comes to keeping America safe, I believe in a three – and I think you believe in these words. I think. Three very important words. Peace through strength. Right?
And we don’t want to use our strength but you have to have our strength and the world is laughing at us. They’re laughing at the stupidity of our president.
Remember he drew the land in the sand? The line is in the sand.
Remember Hillary at the last debate? “I wasn’t Secretary of State then.” She doesn’t even know. It turned out she lied.
Remember she said TPP was gold standard? She said she never said that. During the debate, she lied about that. She’s a liar.
But to be a strong country, we must also be a very rich country. At the center of our economic revival, we’ll be fixing our really horrendous one-way street, horrible trade deals. We’re going to fix them, folks.
You know, last year, we lost almost $800 billion in trade deficits. We had trade deficits with other nations of almost $800 billion.
And I have some friends in the audience. I guarantee you. I can take anyone of those friends – one in particular who happens to be brutal – but that’s okay. Lives in North Carolina, so you know, one of those things. Right? But a great businessperson.
I’ll put him in charge…we will have such a good thing. And there are people like that. We have the greatest negotiators in the world. We have the greatest business people in the world. We don’t use them. We use political hacks.
So we have a trade deficit of almost $800 billion. Sad, isn’t it? Isn’t it pathetic?
North Carolina’s industries and workers have been crushed by Bill Clinton’s signing of NAFTA supported by crooked Hillary.
Don’t forget, a lot of people want that to happen because they make a lot of money by taking money out of this country. Those deals are very good for a lot of people.
Everybody knows NAFTA is no good for the United States but it’s good for their wallets in some cases.
You’ve lost nearly half of your manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Did you know that? You’ve lost almost half of your manufacturing jobs.
This region used to be the furniture manufacturing hub of the world. I know because I bought plenty.
But the NAFTA deal and then China’s entry into the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed disaster – have sent those jobs to other countries. You know better than anybody.
I used to be here a lot for furniture. Gets smaller and smaller every year, doesn’t it? You’re not going to have anything left pretty soon.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Our jobs have been stolen from us and we have people that don’t know what they’re doing, in particular our leadership.
If I win, on day one, we are going to announce our plan to re-negotiate NAFTA.
If we don’t get the deal we want, we’ll leave NAFTA and start over to get a much better, a much more fairer deal because right now, we’re a one-way highway into Mexico – a one-way highway.
I mean, you take a look at this. It’s one-way. They get the jobs. They get the factories. They get the cash.
And all we get? We get illegal immigration and we get drugs, and the drugs are poisoning our youths. The drugs are poisoning our youths and others.
But we’re getting the drugs and we’re getting lots of problems.
And I’ll tell you I was endorsed by, as you know, by ICE and by the Border Patrol agents – 16,500 border patrol. They’ve never done this before. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate. Both groups endorsed me because we’re going to have strong borders.
And we’re going to have people come into our country but they’re going to come in legally. Legally.
And we’re going to stand up to China. We’re going to stop their currency manipulation, and product dumping, which is killing us.
And they don’t follow the rules, and if they don’t, we’re going to institute tariffs when they send something into our country and believe me they are going to obey our rules so quickly you have no idea.
And we’ll end up with a better relationship with China than we do now.
Look what they’re doing. They’re building a massive fortress against everything. A massive fortress in the South China Sea. And yet, they’re ripping us off.
Now, if they’re ripping us off, you wouldn’t think they’d be building fortresses. They have no respect for our president, which I can understand that. They have no respect for Obama. They have no respect for our country and they’re getting away with murder.

And we have the cards. We have the cards. We have all the cards.
Because we’re like the piggy bank that everybody keeps stealing from. But pretty soon, we’re not going to be the piggy bank anymore. We’re going to be the opposite of the piggy bank.
We’re going to have – we owe $20 trillion. Half of which came during the Obama years and yet we didn’t fix anything. Our roads are bad. Our bridges are bad. Our tunnels are bad. Our schools are bad. Our hospitals are bad.
We’re going to start making things again in America.
As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we’re going to lower our business tax from 35% to 15%. The biggest since Ronald Reagan.
Wages will rise. Jobs will return, and factories will come rushing – rushing – back in to our country.
We’re also going to fix our inner cities. 45% of African-American children are under the age of 6 are living in poverty. Think of it. 45%.
58% of African-American youths don’t have jobs.
More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. 3,000 people since January. 3,000. It’s like a war zone.
Violent crime in Greensboro increased by 25% last year. Did you know that? 25%.
To those African-Americans suffering in our country, I say what do you have to lose? Vote for Trump. I’m going to fix it. What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?
I will fight harder for you than anyone has fought for you before.
Here is some of the more amazing things we’re going to do when we takeover hopefully this incredible country and run it properly in 2017.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan.
We’re going to eliminate job killing regulations, which are a disaster.
We are going to defend religious liberty.
We’re going to end Common Core. We’re going to bring our education local.
We’re going to support the men and women of law enforcement.
Repeal and replace Obamacare.
We are going to save our Second Amendment.
We are going to appoint great justices to the United States Supreme Court, who uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
So you have 25 days to make every dream you’ve ever dreamed of for your country come true.
But to beat the system, you have to pound the pavement, get your friends and coworkers out, organize your neighbors and fight for the country you want.
On Nov. 8th, the arrogance of Washington D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voters. It’s time.
I’m asking all Americans – Republicans, Independents, and Democrats – to join us in our campaign to defeat the corrupt establishment and give our government back to the people. It’s going to happen.
I’m going to fight for every citizen of every background. Thank you.
So we’re going to fight. And we’re going to fight for every stretch of this nation. And I’m going to fight to bring us all together.
We’re a divided nation – very divided nation right now. We’re going to be an unified nation – a nation of love.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.
You’re going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. And we’re having a good time. We’re having a good time. You’re going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody’s ever seen in this country before – even our enemies admit that.
We’re going to make history together. You’re going to look back at the election on Nov. 8th and you’re going to say it’s the most important vote you’ve ever cast because that’s when our country started working again, that’s when our country became safe again, that’s when our country became strong again and rich again.
And we will make America – just like your beautiful hat – we will make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you very much.

…In 19 days, we are going to win the state of Ohio, and we are going to win the White House.
And I worked in Ohio, and I love Ohio, I can tell you.
Early voting is underway so make sure you mail in your ballot, and you have to do it quickly and in person. But on Nov. 8th, get there. We are going to do something that has never been done before in this country, believe me.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a major announcement today.
I would like to promise and pledge to all of my voters and supporters and to all of the people of the United States that I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election – if I win.
All right. Seriously, the debate last night was amazing, and everybody said I won, including every single online poll and some had it at 90% and close to 90%. So that’s pretty good.
The question of voter fraud came up during the debate.
We want fairness in the election. This is having nothing to do with me but having to do with the future of our country. We have to have fairness.
John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, was quoted in Wikileaks as saying illegal immigrants could vote as long as they have their driver’s license.
What I’m saying is don’t be naive, folks. Don’t be naive.
One of the big issues that came up last night was the fact that the Clinton campaign has paid people to disrupt violently our rallies and to incite absolute, total bedlam. It’s so bad. So bad.
And you know, I’ve had occasions where we had rallies and it was so incredibly violent. I said, “What’s going on over here?” These were paid people by the Clinton campaign and it just came out and I give a lot of credit to the people that brought this out, believe me.
This is criminal behavior that violates centuries of tradition of peaceful, democratic elections.
A campaign like Clinton’s that will incite violence is truly a campaign that will do anything to win.
And a candidate like crooked Hillary Clinton, who will lie to Congress, lie to the FBI, destroy 33,000 e-mails, put her office up for sale, and put our confidential information in the reach of our enemies is a candidate who is truly capable of anything, including voter fraud.
In addition, it was just learned that Hillary Clinton was given the exact questions to a previous debate, word for word, by Donna Brazile, who is now under tremendous pressure to resign from the DNC, as she should be. She should resign. How can a woman do that? That is cheating at the highest level.

But I ask you: Why shouldn’t Hillary Clinton resign from the race? She was given, think of it – she was given these questions. She used these questions, studied the questions, got the perfect answer for the questions, and never said that she did something that was totally wrong and inappropriate. Hence the name, Crooked Hillary.
Years ago there was a show called “The $64,000 Question”. A contestant got the questions in advance, and his life was ruined. They found out about it, remember? Anybody remember his name? Come on…
Van Doren, very good! You look younger than that. Charles Van Doren.
Charles Van Doren was his name. He got the questions, and his life was ruined.
But Hillary… Hillary Clinton got the ques… Think of it. Forget Donna Brazile. She should resign. She looked like such a fool last night on television trying to say “Well”… She didn’t know what was going on. She had no idea. She said, “Get me out of here.” She got the questions. She got the questions. She gave them to Hillary Clinton.
Hillary Clinton didn’t say, “I’d like to announce that a mistake was made, and I can’t take these ques…” I mean look, how many questions are there? Right?
Can you imagine if I got the questions? They would call for the re-establishment of the electric chair. Do you agree with it? Right?
She got the questions, and she didn’t report it. She went out there knowing the questions. She didn’t report it. That is very dishonest. She’s a very dishonest person.
This is even bigger because we are going for the presidency of the United States. So, this is very important.
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt and dishonest person ever to seek the office of the presidency.
So, it’s in that context that I was asked a question about whether I would agree in advance to concede the results on election night if for some reason we should lose, which we’re not going to lose.
And that was sort of unprecedented question.
If Al Gore or George Bush had agreed three weeks before the election to concede the results and waive their right to a legal challenge or a recount, then there would be no Supreme Court case, and no Bore… Gore versus Bush or Bush versus Gore. And there have been numerous other cases.
In effect, I’m being asked to wave centuries of legal precedent designed to protect the voters.
But listen to this. According to Pew, highly respected, there are 24 million voter registrations in the United States that are either invalid or significantly inaccurate.
Okay, I think the people in this room understand it more than our leaders. Although, maybe our leaders understand more than we think they understand.
Listen to this: 1.8 million people are dead, but they’re registered to vote. Some of whom vote even though they’re dead, which is really a hard thing to do but it’s easy if fraud is involved. Right?
See 1.8 million people who are dead who are registered to vote and some of them vote. One was a Republican and after death became a Democrat. It’s true.
2.8 million people are registered in more than one state. So, you got 2.8 million people, they can vote in Ohio and someplace else.
And 14% of non-citizens are registered to vote.
And then I hear we have such a beautiful – everything’s so wonderful… You understand where I’m coming from, I think, right?
Now I am not a politician. So, I can say it like it is.

Terrible. Those are terrible and frightening statistics.
America is a constitutional republic with a system of laws. These laws are triggered in the case of fraud or in the event of a recount where it’s needed.
Of course, I would accept a clear election result. But I would also reserve my right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result.
Right?
And always, I will follow and abide by all of the rules and traditions of all of the many candidates who have come before me. Always.
Bottom line, we’re gonna win. We’re gonna win. We’re gonna win so big. We’re gonna win so big. Nov. 8th, we’re going to win.
Together we are going to deliver real change that puts again America first. It’s gonna be America first.
Thank you. Boy, do you people have spirit. So early. Beautiful. It’s a beautiful thing to see.
All over the country it’s the same-the spirit-it’s a movement like they’ve never seen.
The dishonest media, they’ve never seen anything like it. They’ve never seen, never seen anything like it. They’ve never seen anything like it.
We are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals; end illegal immigration; stop the massive inflow of refugees; reduce surging crime; cut taxes and regulation; unleash job producing energy -American energy; rebuild our military; and take care of our vets.
Now, our vets. Our great veterans have not been taken care of the way they should be taken care of. That I can tell you. Our vets are treated often times not as well as illegal immigrants. And we’re going to change that very fast. Our vets are going to be treated properly and with great respect. That’s not happening now.
And we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Just in case you haven’t noticed, rates are going up 60%, 70%, 80%. Next year is going to be worse. It’s a catastrophe and it’s dying anyway but we are going to repeal it, replace it. You’re going to have great health care at a fraction of the cost, okay?
Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your jobs have fled.
Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration.
Your taxes will go way down under a Trump administration. And Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes. She’s going to raise your taxes.
Your companies won’t be leaving Ohio under a Trump administration.
Right now our economy isn’t growing practically at all. Last Quarter it was only around 1% GDP. People have hardly ever heard of numbers like that.
If in China it goes to 7% or 8%, it’s like considered a national catastrophe.
Here, we’re at 1%; isn’t everything wonderful? Everything is not wonderful. And if it was wonderful, we wouldn’t have packed auditoriums no matter where we go. Believe me.
I’m going to get us to 4% growth and maybe more and create 25 million jobs for our country over the next 10 years.
Many workers are earning less today than they were 18 years ago. They’re working harder. They’re working longer. But they’re making less. And in some cases they’re working two and three jobs but still taking home less money. It’s ridiculous. They’re getting older. They’re working harder.
And so am I. I’m working harder and I’m getting older too. Believe me. I’m working harder.
Companies like Carrier are firing their workers and moving to Mexico.
Ford is moving all of their small car production to Mexico.

When I’m president, if a company wants to fire their workers and leave for Mexico or other countries, then we will charge them a 35% tax when they want to ship their products back into the United States. Then they won’t leave, believe me. Those companies will not leave. If we do that, they will not leave and you know what, if they do, that will be fine. We’ll make a lot of money. But they’re not going to be leaving.
And our politicians should have told you this years ago. You would have stopped this horrible onslaught of companies leaving.
But two things. Either they’re not very smart or they are smart but they’re controlled by their donors and special interests. Okay? So either way, the people lose.
Hillary Clinton has raised countless millions of dollars from big donors, who want to shift our jobs to other countries. You know that. You saw that last night.
Remember when I said “open border” and she said “open border, I don’t want open border”. But it turned out she wanted open borders.
Boy, that Wikileaks has done a job on her, hasn’t it?
And you take a look. She really has a hatred almost for Catholics. She has a hatred for evangelicals. I mean what they said about Catholics and evangelicals, so many other things. So many other things.
And actually, the one that I liked was John Podesta, saying, that who’s her campaign chairman, saying that, “Hillary Clinton has bad instincts”. She’s got bad instincts. I don’t want somebody with bad instincts as our president.
I’ll tell you, if I were Hillary, I’d fire that guy. He’s saying so many bad things.
Well, Bill said about Obamacare, right? Two weeks ago. He said, “This is the craziest thing I’ve ever seen”. He was right. He suffered that evening, right?
But this is why I’m proposing a package of ethic reforms to make up a government honest once again. It’s time to drain the swamp of corruption in Washington D.C. and we’re going to do it.
Those reforms include the following:
A five-year ban on executive branch in congressional officials lobbying the government after they leave government service. They’re making a fortune. Not going to happen. That’s why they make all these sweetheart deals.
A lifetime ban on former executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.
A ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. I don’t want that. You don’t want that. Nobody wants that. And you wonder why we make all of these dumb deals, those horrible deals.
Friends of mine come up “How could have they made such a stupid deal. They can’t be that” and I said “They are actually smart. But you have to understand, this is the way the system works.”
Additionally, I’m going to push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress. It’s about time.
Not only will we end government corruption, but we will end economic stagnation.
My plan for the economy can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.
At the center of what will be a historic jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals and they are terrible.
47 million Americans are in poverty, and 45 million Americans are right now on food stamps.
We have nearly $800 billion annual trade deficits in goods with the world.
And the worst so-called recovery, since the Great Depression. And you know, we hear about a recovery. It’s the worst since the Great Depression. Hard to believe.
Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization. Two deals done by Bill and backed strongly by crooked Hillary.
America has lost – listen to this – 70,000 factories since China joined the WTO.
And by the way, try doing business over in China. Not that easy, folks. Not easy.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. They’re stealing our jobs. They’re stealing our companies. They’re taking our money.
We have drugs. We have debt. We have empty factories. That’s going to end. That’s going to end. So easy.

A Trump administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA, the worst ever signed, probably the worst trade ever signed in history, stand up to foreign cheating and currency manipulation, and stop the jobs from leaving our country. We are going to stop them. It won’t be hard. Won’t be hard.
In order to help bring our jobs back to Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, all across this great nation, I’m going to undertake a major reorganization of our bureaucracy, which we have to do. Have to do.
American trade policy is currently mismanaged by dozens of competing bureaucracies spread across the departments of agriculture, commerce, labor, state, treasury. All of these departments, so many departments.
Get that mosquito out of here. Get a little nervous with mosquitoes nowadays, folks. But up here, you haven’t been hit yet, right? That’s what we need is a nice mosquito bite.
Thank you. I love you, too.
Mosquito bite right smack in the middle of the nose. No, we don’t want it.
In my administration, all trade policy making will be consolidated into one very important office. We’re going to call it the American Desk, and it will be located inside the Department of Commerce. And I’ll be checking with those people because we’re not going to lose our companies anymore.
It’s so complicated. So many different departments have to get involved, and by the time they get involved, they’re gone, they signed with all of these other countries.
The mission of the American Desk will be to protect the economic interests of the American worker and the national interests of the United States because they are hurting our national interest.
We owe $20 trillion right now, doubled under Obama, and we haven’t done anything. Our roads are bad. Our airports are bad. Our schools are bad. Everything is bad. They’re falling down.
So we have all this debt. We haven’t started yet because we have to fix the infrastructure of our country.
It’s going to be America first, believe me.
As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we are going to lower our business tax from 35% to 15%.
We’re also going to rebuild our inner cities.
African-Americans and Hispanics living in the inner cities are suffering. The violence is unbearable and unbelievable. You walk to the store with your child and you get shot. There’s no education. There are no jobs. And there’s practically no safety.
Nearly 3,500 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year, since Jan. 1st, 3,500 people. That’s worse than what you are reading about over in the Middle East in many cases.
Homicides are up nearly 50% in Washington, D.C. and more than 60% in Baltimore. And it’s getting worse.
To the African-American and Hispanic communities who are suffering, I say what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump. I’m going to fix the inner cities. I’m going to fix the inner cities. What do you have to lose? Seriously and I mean it.
The inner cities are so bad. They’ve been run so badly by Democrats for decades and decades and decades, sometimes more than an hundred years unbroken. And they get the votes and they go on their way and they don’t do a thing.
So I hope the African-Americans, I hope the Hispanics; I hope they’re going to vote.
We will be a rich nation once again. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country, and national security begins at the border.
Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said her dream is for totally open trade and open borders.
You saw that last night when she tried to lie about it, right? She tried to lie about it, and she came up with something, she was talking about energy.
She tried to lie about it just like she lied about other things. She tried to lie last night. Remember she said TPP, which by the way is a disaster. It will be a disaster for Ohio.

They have no – no guards, no safeguards. They don’t talk about currency manipulation in the agreement. It’s thousands of pages long.
It’s a disaster for Ohio and Pennsylvania and any place that makes anything. It’s bad.
Hillary’s plan includes an open border with the Middle East, meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores.
Just last week, an Iraqi refugee approved for entry by Hillary Clinton’s State Department plead guilty to joining ISIS. There are many of them.
So let me state this as clearly as I can: If I’m elected president of the United States, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
We’ve got enough problems, don’t you think? Don’t you think we have enough?
That’ll end up being the great Trojan horse that they’ll read about it in 200 years like you read about Trojan horse current. That will be and we don’t want to be a part of that history.
We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders.
And yes, we will build the wall. We need it. And Mexico will pay for the wall.
We got the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officers. First time they’ve ever endorsed a candidate for president.
Every year countless American lives are lost to sanctuary cities. My opponent strongly supports sanctuary cities. I don’t think she knows why. Like the ones they got Kate Steinle killed by a five-time deported criminal illegal immigrant.
If I’m elected president, I’m going to cut off federal funding to sanctuary cities and quickly.
And we are going to make sure that our immigration authorities do the job that they’re supposed to be doing. And these, in many cases, are great people that are not allowed to do the job.
I can tell you in the case of the border patrol and the ICE agents, these are great American people that frankly, by backing me, they’re going to working much harder. They don’t have to stand back. You know the expression? It’s called stand back. People just walk right into our country.
We are going to save American lives. Either we win this election or we are going to lose this country.
To sum up, here is some of the amazing things we’re going to be doing for our country starting in 2017.
We are going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation, which affects so many.
We will defend our religious liberty.
We will provide school choice to every low-income child in America. And we are going to end Common Core. Education is going to be brought locally.
We will totally support the men and women of law enforcement.
We talked about this last night at the debate. We will save the Second Amendment, which right now is under siege.
And I will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
You have 19 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your children, for your family, for your country, come true.
Thank you. God bless you. Thank you.

Our campaign is powered by our love for this country and our love for our fellow citizens.
And is there any better place to be than a Trump rally? Or any safer place, too.
It’s a campaign about rejected the cynicism and elitism of our failed political establishment, which is doing great harm to everybody – to us.
I am going to fight for every citizen of every background from every stretch of this nation.
I’m going to fight for every child living in poverty.
I’m going to fight for every mom who lost their child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence.
I’m going to fight for every community whose jobs and factories have been ripped out of our states like Ohio and Pennsylvania and Florida and so many others. You take a look at New England. You take a look at what’s happened. You take a look at New York state, upstate New York, and you see what’s going on. We will never ever ever let that happen again. We’re going to bring them back.
I’m going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests.
And I’m going to fight to bring us all together as Americans.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
In 10 years, in 20 years, in 30 years, you’re going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. We’ve had a good time. But important things are happening.
You’re going to remember this day – this is a movement like nobody has seen in this country before.
You’re going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that I’ve ever cast for anyone at anytime.
You’re going to be so proud of your country again.
And hopefully you’ll be very, very proud of your president because he will do a great job.
And when we win, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you everybody. Thank you, Ohio. God bless you.

Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you. Please sit down. Thank you. Thank you.
It’s my privilege to be here in Gettysburg, hollow ground where so many lives were given in service to freedom. Amazing place.
President Lincoln served in a time of division like we’ve never seen before. It is my hope that we can look at his example to heal the divisions we are living through right now. We’re a very divided nation.
I’m not a politician and I’ve never wanted to be a politician. Believe me.
But when I saw the trouble our country was in, I knew I couldn’t stand by and watch any longer.
Our country has been so good to me. I love our country. And I felt I had to act.
I’ve seen the system up close and personal for many years. I’ve been a major part of it. I know how the game works in Washington and on Wall Street, and I know how they’ve rigged the rules against everyday Americans.
The rules are rigged.
Nearly 1 in 4 Americans in their prime earning years isn’t even working.
1 in 5 households have no one with a job. 45 million Americans are on food stamps and 47 million are living in poverty.
We have failed our inner cities and in so doing have failed our African-American and Hispanic communities.
We’ve misguided military adventures overseas and wars that go on forever that just cannot be won by the people that are doing it now. They don’t know how to win the wars.
At home, we have our great veterans dying while waiting for medical care.
Change has to come from outside our very broken system. Our system is broken.
The fact that Washington and the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime.
The system is totally rigged and broken.
First, the issue of voter fraud.
According to Pew, there are 24 million voter registrations in the United States that are either invalid or significantly inaccurate and when I say that there are such inaccuracies, it’s unbelievable.
1.8 million dead people are registered to vote and some of them are voting. I wonder how that happens.
2.8 million people are registered in more than one state.
These are numbers, folks. These are numbers.
14% of non-citizens are registered to vote.
The system is also rigged because Hillary Clinton should have been precluded from running for the presidency of the United States.

But the FBI and the Justice Department covered up her crimes, which included lying to the FBI and Congress on numerous occasions and included saying “I do not recall” to the FBI on 39 separate times.
She recalls everything else but 39 separate times, she said “I do not recall”. Well, that’s a lie also.
Then there’s the deletion of at least 33,000 emails after receiving a subpoena from the United States Congress. That’s after receiving the subpoena.
As an example, it was announced this week that the highly respected four star general James Cartwright may be sentenced to up to five years in prison with a massive fine for lying on one occasion to the FBI, and he said he did that for national security reasons. Highly respected man. A four star general. Just took place two days ago. How must he feel?
A big part of the rigging of this election is the fact that Hillary is being allowed to run despite having broken so many laws on so many different occasions. Why is she allowed to run?
The dishonest mainstream media is also part and a major part of this corruption.
They’re corrupt. They lie and fabricate stories to make a candidate that is not their preferred choice look as bad and even dangerous as possible.
At my rallies, they never show or talk about the massive crowd size and try to diminish all of our events.
On the other hand, they don’t show the small size of Hillary’s crowd but in fact talk about how many people are there. Very small crowds. You know it. They know it. Everybody knows it.
Over the last two days, three highly respected national polls said we’re in first place.
And one of those pollster was the most accurate poll on the last two cycles. But the media refuses to even say it or put that word out. They refuse to talk about it.
They’re trying desperately to suppress my vote and the voice of the American people.
As an example of the power structure I’m fighting, AT&T is buying Time Warner and thus CNN – a deal we will not approve in my administration because it’s too much concentration of power in the hands of too few.
Likewise, Amazon, which through its ownership, controls the Washington Post, should be paying massive taxes but it’s not paying. And it’s a very unfair playing field and you see what that’s happening and what that’s doing to department stores all over the country.
Very, very unfair. And you’re talking about billions and billions of dollars they should be paying those taxes.
Additionally, Comcast’s purchase of NBC concentrates far too much power in one massive entity that is trying to tell the voters what to think and what to do.
Deals like this destroy democracy.
And we’ll look at breaking that deal up and other deals like that.
This should never ever have been approved in the first place. They’re trying to poison the mind of the American voter.
Every woman lied when they came forward to hurt my campaign. Total fabrication.

The events never happened. Never.
All of these liars will be sued after the election is over.
But a simple phone call placed to the biggest newspapers or television networks gets them wall-to-wall coverage with virtually no fact-checking whatsoever.
Here is why this is relevant to you.
If they can fight somebody like me, who has unlimited resources to fight back, just look at what they can do to you, your jobs, your security, your education, your health care, the violation of religious liberty, the theft of your Second Amendment, the loss of your factories, your homes, and much more.
Look at what they’ve done to you with your jobs.
It has just been learned on video that the violent protests at some of my rallies like in Chicago where police and others were seriously hurt – You saw that. Blood pouring down their face – were caused by paid – paid – DNC and Clinton campaign operatives.
Now, we didn’t know this. We didn’t know this. This just came out two days ago on tape. We didn’t know this. We were amazed at the level of violence.
These were paid operatives. Paid by the DNC and probably the Clinton campaign.
This is a criminal act. Policemen were badly hurt and so were many others. And these people should be prosecuted.
But because of the rigged system, they probably won’t be.
Just like we found out about these paid violent protesters, it was probably the DNC and the Clinton campaign that put forward these liars with their fabricated stories. But we’ll find out about their involvement at a later date through litigation, and I look so forward to doing that.
The rigging of the system is designed for one reason – to keep the corrupt establishment and special interests in power at your expense and at everybody’s expense.
I have no special interest but you – the American voter.
I didn’t have to do this. Believe me. There’s nothing easy about it.
But I had to do it. I love our country. I love the people of our country, and I felt I had to do it.
One thing we all know is that we will never solve our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place.
Hillary Clinton is not running against me. She’s running against change. And she’s running against all of the American people and all of the American voters.
We now find ourselves at that very special fork in the road.
Do we repeat the mistakes of the past or do we choose to believe that a great future – yet unwritten – still lies ahead for us and for our wonderful, beloved country? I think it does. I know it does.
My economic plan will deliver at least 25 million jobs in one decade.
Now, our jobs have been taken away. They’ve gone to Mexico. They’ve gone to so many other countries. It’s a one-lane highway where they get the jobs, they get the factories, they get the money, and we get the drugs and we get the unemployment and it’s going to change. Believe me. It’s going to change fast.
And that goes for all countries.
When you look at China, when you look at every country, every trade deal we have is horrible and we should be ashamed of what people and the people that let those deals happen. They’re defective and they knew they were defective and they were done for a reason. And believe me, they will be unwound so fast.
And we will have trade. We will have great trade and it will be free trade.

But it will be fair trade and it will be real.
My security plan – so important. They’ve taken the jobs from us.
My security plan will bring safety to our poorest communities.
My ethics plan will end the corruption in our government.
We will – corruption is massive. We will drain the swamp in Washington D.C. and replace it with a new government of, by, and for the people. Believe me.
That is why I have chosen Gettysburg to unveil this contract.
I’m asking the American people to rise above the noise and the clutter of our broken politics and to embrace that great faith and optimism that has always been the central ingredient in the American character. And there’s nothing better or stronger than the American character.
I am asking the American people to dream big once again.
What follows is my 100 day action plan to make America great again.
It’s a contract between Donald J. Trump and the American voter, and it begins with bringing honesty, accountability, and change to Washington D.C.
Therefore, on the first day of my term of office, my administration will immediately pursue the following six measures to clean up the corruption and special interest collusion in Washington.
First, a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.
Second, a hiring freeze on all federal employees to reduce federal workforce through attrition, exempting military, public safety, and public health.
Third, a requirement that for every new federal regulation two existing regulations must be eliminated. Regulations are killing our country and our jobs.
Fourth, a five-year ban on White House and congressional officials from becoming lobbyists after they leave government service making a fortune.
Fifth, a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.
Sixth, a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. It’s what’s happening.
On the same day, I will begin taking – really taking strongly – seven actions to protect American workers.
Our American workers have been treated so badly by politicians that don’t have their interests at heart. And we’re going to change that and we’re going to change that very, very fast.
First, I will announce my intention to totally renegotiate NAFTA – one of the worst deals our country has ever made signed by Bill Clinton – or withdraw from the deal under Article 2205.
Second, I will announce our withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership – a potential disaster for our country.
Third, I will direct my Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator. China is a currency manipulator. What they have done to us by playing currency is very sad. And I don’t blame them. They’ve been very smart. I blame our politicians for letting this take place. So easy to stop. So easy to stop.
Fourth, I will direct the Secretary of Commerce and U.S. trade representative to identify all foreign trading abuses that unfairly impact American workers and direct them to use every tool under American and international law to end those abuses immediately.

Fifth, very importantly, I will lift the restrictions on the production of $50 trillion worth of job-producing American energy reserves, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. And we will put our miners back to work.
Sixth, I will lift the Obama-Clinton roadblocks that allowed this vital energy infrastructure projects to go forward. We have roadblocks like you have never ever seen – environmental blocks, structural blocks. We’re going to allow the Keystone Pipeline and so many other things to move forward. Tremendous number of jobs and good for our country.
We’re going to cancel billions in payments to the United Nations’s climate change programs and use them to fix America’s water and environmental infrastructure. We’re paying billions and billions and billions of dollars. We’re going to fix our own environment.
Additionally on the first day, I will take the following five actions to restore security and constitutional rule of law. We have to do that.
Cancel every unconstitutional executive action memorandum and order issued by President Obama.
Second, begin the process of selecting a replacement for Justice Scalia, whose wife by the way has a Trump sign. His wife is a phenomenal woman. Has a Trump sign in her front yard. Isn’t that nice? I just found that out this morning. Boom. Isn’t that nice? He was great.
From one of the 20 judges on my list. You know we’re going to make great decisions from 20 outstanding judges on a list that we submitted who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Third, we will cancel all federal funding of sanctuary cities.
Fourth, we will begin removing the more than 2 million criminal illegal immigrants from the country. These are drug dealers, gang heads, gang members, killers. And cancel visas to foreign countries that won’t taken them back.
And when Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State and they had someone who was bad – really bad – and they brought him back to the country and the country wouldn’t take him, she said, “Well, bring him back. We don’t want to force the country to take him.”
There won’t be one such instance if I become president. Believe me.
We’re going to suspend immigration from terror prone regions where vetting cannot safely occur.
And if you look at Syria and the migration, we’re taking in thousands and thousands of people into our country. We have no idea who they are, what their thought process is, where do they come from. And Hillary Clinton wants to increase the number of those thousands and thousands currently pouring in by 550%.
Radical Islamic terror is right around the corner. We have to be so tough, so smart, so vigilant. We can’t allow that to happen. We have enough problems.
All vetting of people coming into our country will be considered extreme vetting. We will be very careful.
Next, I will work with Congress to introduce the following broader legislative measures and fight for their passage within the first 100 days of my administration.

Middle class tax relief and simplification act, an economic plan designed to grow the economy 4% a year and create at least 25 million new jobs through massive tax reduction and simplification in combination with trade reform, regulatory relief, and lifting the restrictions on American energy.
We need that so badly. Jobs. We need jobs. Our jobs have left us. Our good jobs have really left us.
The largest tax reductions are for the middle class, who have been forgotten. It’s called the forgotten man and woman. They have been forgotten.
The middle class with family of two children will get basically approximately a 35% tax cut and that’s what they can use and that money will go back into the economy.
The current number of brackets will be reduced from seven to three, and tax forms will likewise be greatly simplified.
The business rate will be lowered from 35% to 15% and the trillions of dollars of American corporate money overseas can now be brought back at a 10% rate.
It’s stuck. We can’t bring it back – $2.5 trillion to $5 trillion. Companies can’t get it back into the country.
Some companies are actually leaving not only because taxes are so high but because they can’t get their money. And they are actually leaving to get their money.
We are going to simplify that. We’re going to have them bring the money back into our country and use the money and spend the money on building our country.
End the offshoring act, establish tariffs to discourage companies from laying off their workers in order to relocate to other countries and ship their products back to the United States tax free.
They leave the United States like Carrier, like Ford, like so many others. They leave the United States. They fire all of their employees. They go to Mexico or another country. They build a beautiful brand new plant. They hire other people. They then take their air conditioners, their cars, whatever they’re making, they send it tax free across what will be a very strong border. Believe me. But they send it tax free across the border and what do we end up with? We have unemployment, tremendous losses, and we have none of the benefits.
So we will establish tariffs that when they do that, there will be consequences. We’ll work with them. We’ll be nice. We’ll be fair. But there has to be consequences.
And when they know there are consequences, our companies will stop leaving the United States and going to other countries.
The American infrastructure act leverages public private partnerships and private investments through tax incentives to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over the next 10 years.
Our infrastructure is in such trouble. We’ve doubled our national debt to $20 trillion under President Obama.
In less than 8 years, $10 trillion has been added. Think of it. And we haven’t fixed anything. We haven’t fixed anything.
What have we done? Our roads are broken. Our bridges, our tunnels, our hospitals, our schools.
And we have $20 trillion in debt – all time high.
That’s true. Our VA hospitals are in bad shape and our VA is in very, very bad shape. And we will fix that. We are going to work on fixing that because our veterans have not been treated properly.
We have illegal immigrants that are treated far better in many instances than our veterans and we’re not going to have that.
School choice and education opportunity act redirects education dollars to give parents the right to send their kids, their children, to public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home schools of their choice.
And so importantly, we’re going to end Common Core and bring education supervision to local communities.
We do so badly on education. If you look at the lists and you see Sweden, Norway, Denmark, different countries at the top, you see us at the bottom.

And yet, by far, per pupil more money than anybody and it’s not even close. We spend more money per pupil than anybody. Not even close. We’re at the bottom of the list. Other countries spending far less per pupil are at the top of the list.
So obviously, our current system is not working. We will change it and we will make it good.
It expands vocational and technical education, which we’ve totally forgotten about in this country, and make two and four year colleges more affordable.
Have you ever gone to school and you’ve been with people who aren’t good students but they can fix and engine or they can build a wall or they can do things you wouldn’t even think about? Because we can use some of the ones who build the wall. We’re going to need them. We’re going to need them.
But did you ever see that? How they’re genius at fixing a car. They can do anything. But history? Not so good. Physics? Not so good.
We have to open vocational again. Those are the people. These are great people.
The repeal and replace Obamacare act. Fully repeal Obamacare and replace it with health savings accounts. And we can do that. The health savings account – it’s one way – there are numerous ways. But this is one very good way.
The ability to purchase health insurance across state lines, which we have to do because that’s competition. The politicians won’t let go of it because the insurance companies, they don’t want competition. But we’ll open it up. Believe me. We’ll get rid of that. I’ve been saying it for years. And let states manage Medicaid funds. It will be so good.
Reforms will also include cutting the red tape at the FDA. There are over 4,000 drugs awaiting approval and we especially want to speed the approval of life-saving medications.
They’re looking at drugs that are looking very good and you have terminal patients. That it’s over. These people. They’re dying. They want to get the drug. They won’t be living much longer. And we study it for years and years.
At some point, they have to do what they have to do. They have to do it properly. But we have 4,000 different drugs and products waiting in line for approval and we can’t get them approved. We’re going to speed up that process very significantly.
Affordable child care and elder care act allows Americans to deduct child care and elder care from their taxes, incentivizes employers to provide on-site – so important – child care services. And you see that with a couple of companies and it’s such a great thing to see. And creates tax-free dependent care savings accounts for both young and elderly dependents, with matching contributions for low-income families. So good.
End illegal immigration act fully funds the construction of a wall on our southern border. Don’t worry about it. Remember, I said Mexico is paying for the wall. With the full understanding that the country of Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such a wall. Okay?
We’re going to have the wall. Mexico’s going to pay for the wall. Mexico’s – by the way, I met with the president of Mexico 2.5 months ago. Wonderful meeting. Wonderful person. But I told him it’s a two-way highway, not a one-way highway. We have our people. We have to take care of our people. We have to protect our people. So it’s got to be a two way street. Otherwise, it’s going to be a whole different deal.
But it establishes a two-year mandatory minimum prison sentences if people coming in illegally for illegally re-entering the United States after a previous deportation and a five-year mandatory minimum for illegally re-entering for those with felony convictions, multiple misdemeanor convictions, or two or more prior deportations.
So when somebody comes in, we send them out. They come back in. They go to prison for quite a while. They come back. They come back again? They go five years. Because what’s happening is they’re coming back 10 times, and I could go case after case.

They come back. Look at what happened in San Francisco. Five times he came back. On the fifth time, he killed Kate [Steinle]. Five times. But so many others – one 10 times came back. Killed somebody after 10 times.
When they get deported, they stay out. Otherwise, they have very serious prison terms. They will stay out. Once you do that, they will stay out.
Right now, they have no consequence. They have no consequences.
Also reforms on visa rules to enhance penalties for overstaying and to ensure open jobs are offered to American workers first.
Number eight, restoring community safety act reduces surging crimes, drugs, and violence by creating a task force on violent crime and increasing funding for programs that train and assist your local police, who are doing such a great job. Believe me.
Increase the resources for federal law enforcement agencies and federal prosecutors to dismantle criminal gangs and put violent offenders behind bars or out of our country and into the country where they came from.
Restoring national security act, which rebuilds our military by eliminating the defense sequester, which has been very tough on our military, and expanding military investment.
Now, at no time practically do we need a military like right now. We don’t want to use it. But it’s peace through strength. We need a strong military. Our military is so terribly depleted.
It also provides our great veterans with the ability to receive public VA treatment or attend a private doctor of their choice.
If they’re waiting on line – and I have the plan up and we’ve gotten as you know tremendous support from veterans, from law enforcement, from veterans, from the military. Tremendous support.
But if they’re waiting on line, and you see it – 22 suicides a day. People don’t even believe it. 22 a day. But if they’re waiting on line for seven days, six days, nine days, they can’t get to see a doctor and a simple procedure or a simple prescription can solve their problem and they become very sick and they die. They die waiting in line.
We’re going to give them the power to go across the street to a local doctor, a private doctor, a public hospital or a private hospital, all looking to help and all looking to do business. And we’ll pay the bill. So much cheaper but much more importantly, the veterans will finally be taken care of properly because what they’re going through now is unacceptable.
Also, we’re going to protect our vital infrastructure from the new thing – it’s called cyber attack.
It establishes new screening procedures for immigration to ensure those who are admitted to our country support our people and our values.
We want people that love our country or can love our country and people that will love our citizens. We want people that can love us.
And there are ways through talent of determining that, and countries do but we don’t. Just come on in, folks. Come on in.
Clean up corruption in Washington act enacts tough new ethic reforms to reduce the corrupting influence of special interests and donors on our politics.
On Nov. 8th, Americans will be voting for this 100-day plan to restore prosperity to our country, secure our communities, and honesty to our government.
This is my pledge to you, and if we follow these steps, we will once more have a government of, by, and for the people.
And importantly, we will make America great again. Believe me.
Thank you. Thank you.

…Thank you. Thank you, pastor. A great, great honor.
And it’s great to be here in Charlotte to discuss an issue that means so much to me. That’s the issue of urban renewal. Something you don’t hear very much about. And the rebuilding of our inner cities.
Today, I want to talk about how to grow the African-American middle class and how to provide a new deal for black America.
That deal is grounded in three promises: safe communities, great education, and high paying jobs.
My vision rests on a principle that has defined this campaign right from the beginning and you’ve seen where we have come from and where we are right now. It’s called America first.
Every African-American citizen in this country is entitled to a government that puts their jobs, wages, and security first.
I’m asking today for the honor of your vote and the privilege to represent you as your president.
And I will not let you down. You watch.
Here’s the promise I make to you. Whether you vote for me or not, I will be your greatest champion.
We live in a very divided country but I will be your greatest champion.
I have no special interests. I take no orders from donors or lobbyists. I’ve put a lot of money into this campaign. Believe me. I will be in for over $100 million. That’s a lot!
I work for you and I work only for you.
Our campaign is about change, optimism, and the future.
I’m asking people to break from the bitter failures of the past and to imagine the amazing possibilities for our future and our future together.
Our opponent represents the rigged system and the failed thinking of yesterday.
Hillary Clinton’s campaign offers only the depressing pessimism that says this is as good as it gets and it’s never going to get better. She’s been doing this for 30 years and for 30 years it’s only gotten worse.
American politics is caught in a time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over and over.
And they keep coming back to the African-American community and the Hispanic community, and they keep talking about what they’re going to do, and they don’t do it and four years later you see them again. It’s enough.
They keep making the same mistakes, and they keep offering the same old lame excuses when nothing happens. You know that. I know that. Frankly everybody knows that.
The fact that our corrupt Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our movement – we have a major movement there’s never been anything like it in this country.
And this is so important to me what I’m saying here today. I wanted a small group of very, very powerful, influential people from the African-American community, and that’s what I wanted to do. Enough with the rallies of 25,000 and 35,000 people. This was very important to me.
And I just met with some of the finest people I’ve ever met back stage. We had a great meeting.

And I just want to thank those people right now. They are phenomenal people, so I want to say thank you very much.
But it’s just more proof that we represent the kind of change that arrives only once in a lifetime. This is a movement that’s once in a lifetime. Never going to happen again. Never going to have another opportunity.
Every day I’m out on the trail proposing fresh solutions and new thinking, and every day, the same people getting rich off our broken system tell us that we can’t change and that we can’t try anything new because it’s not good for them.
I have a message for all of the doubters in Washington: America’s future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
And it’s time to extend that dream to every African-American citizen in this country. African-American citizens have sacrificed so much for our nation. They’ve fought and died in every war since the Revolution, and from the pews and the picket lines, they’ve lifted up the conscience of our country in the long march for civil rights.
Yet, too many African-Americans have been left behind. Massive numbers have been left behind.
45% of African-American children under the age of six live in poverty.
58% of African-American youth are not currently employed.
African-Americans comprise roughly 13% of the population, yet make up 60% of murder victims under the age of 22. That’s some number, isn’t it though? Some number.
In 2015, violent crime in Charlotte increased by 18% and it’s expected to rise to 24% this year.
In Chicago, nearly 3,500 people have been shot since Jan. 1st of this year. That’s not a very long time ago. Think of it: 3,500 people.
The conditions of our inner-cities today are totally unacceptable and we have to fix them.
The Democrats have run our inner-cities for 50, 60, 70 years or more uninterrupted. They’ve run the school boards, the city councils, the mayor’s office, and the congressional seats. Their policies have failed and they failed miserably.
They’ve trapped children in failing government schools and opposed school choice at every single turn.
The Clinton’s gave us NAFTA, one of the worst economical deals in the history of any country. It’s taken our jobs. It’s taken our companies. It’s taken everything – so much out of our country.
And China’s entry into the World Trade Organization.
Two deals that truly de-industrialized America, uprooted our industry, and stripped bare towns like Detroit and Baltimore and the inner-cities of North Carolina, where we are really focusing.
And, by the way, you see the new polls coming out where we’re really doing well? Which is okay. Thank you. We’re going to win North Carolina.
We’re going to win Florida. Actually, we’re going to win Florida too. We’re going to win Ohio, and we’re going to win Iowa. We’re winning a lot of states.
You get the little word back there. The media, they say, “What’s going on over here?”
You have to see in Florida, they have lines that are four blocks long trying to get to the polling booths. They’ve never seen that here.
And same thing in many other states that have started.
This state has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary’s NAFTA. Think of it: half. Decimating, by the way, and they have been decimated. Decimating the African-American community and the African-American middle class. Decimated. These jobs went to Mexico and other places.

Politicians, Democratic politicians, Democratic policies have also given rise to crippling crime and total violence.
Then there’s the issue of taxation and regulation.
Massive taxes, massive regulation of small business, and radical restrictions on American energy have drive jobs and opportunities out of our inner-cities, and in many cases, out of our country.
Hillary wants to raise taxes very, very substantially on everybody and on business. And especially on small business as high as 45%, which will only drive more jobs out of your community, out of our country and into other countries.
One of the greatest betrayals has been the issue of immigration.
Illegal immigration violates the civil rights of African-Americans. That’s what’s been happening.
No group has been more economically harmed by decades of illegal immigration than the low-income African-American workers.
Hillary’s pledge to enact open borders, made in secret to a foreign bank.
Wikileaks. Wikileaks is unbelievable. What we’ve learned about her and her people. What they’ve said about her behind her back. But now, it’s not behind her back.
She’s got bad instincts according to John Podesta. Hillary Clinton has bad instincts.
I wouldn’t want my people saying those things. I wonder what they’re saying. Is there somewhere we can check it out?
No, they say terrible terrible things about her. So, I mean, if they say that and they work with her all the time, why would we want her to be president?
At the center of my revitalization plan is the issue of trade.
Massive chronic trade deficits have emptied out our jobs. Just look at what’s happened to Baltimore, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, and right here in North Carolina. You know that for a fact.
It’s the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
If I’m president and the executives at Ford Motor Company announced they’re moving their plants and jobs to Mexico, I will pick up the phone and make a very, very simple call. I don’t know if it’s presidential, but I’d rather do it myself. And who cares? Who cares?
Thank you…You’re screaming, “Make that call. Make that call.”
Takes me 5 minutes. I’d rather do it myself. It will get done properly.
I will tell those executives that if they move their factories to Mexico, I will put a 35% tax on their product, which in this case is small cars.
You know, they’re moving their small-car plants out of mostly Michigan moving to Mexico. I mean, it’s terrible. They’re going to make their small cars. That’s a big thing. It might be a small car, but it’s a lot of business.
Before they ship it back to the United States, they’re going to pay a tax. 35%. You tell them and you know what? They’re going to stay. They’re going to stay. They’re not leaving. They’re not leaving.
But nobody ever says that. The politicians don’t say that because they’re getting campaign contributions from these people and their special interests. So they’re not going to say.
Me, I’m saying it. I’m doing what’s right. I’m working for you, folks. We’re going to get this thing right. We’re going to get it right.
Such a big problem. Our jobs are leaving us and people are being fired all over the country. Our plants, our factories are leaving us.
We won’t let your jobs be stolen from you anymore. It’s not gonna happen. So easy.
When we stop off-shoring to low-wage countries, we raise wages at home, meaning rent and bills become instantly more affordable.
At the same time, my plan to lower the business tax from 35% to 15% will bring thousands of new companies onto our shores.
You’ll have jobs. You’ll have jobs.
It also includes a massive middle-class tax cut, tax-free child care savings accounts, and childcare tax deductions and credits. And a total simplification of the tax code.

I will also propose tax holidays for inner-city investment. A new tax incentive to get foreign companies to relocate in blighted American neighborhoods. And they will do that. It will be worthwhile. It’s called incentive. They will do it.
I will further…I will further empower cities and states to seek a federal disaster designation for blighted communities in order to initiate the rebuilding of vital infrastructure, the demolition of abandoned properties, and the increased presence of law enforcement, so we have safety in our community. We need that. We need that…the safety is so bad.
Some of our inner-cities are more dangerous than some of the war zones that we’re reading about and seeing about every night. We have to stop that.
I will also pursue financial reforms to make it easier for young African-Americans to get credit to pursue their dreams in business and create jobs in their communities. It’s gonna be beautiful. Such talent. Such a potential talent out there. It’s so incredible, and it’s totally being wasted…wasted by politicians who don’t want to see it happen.
Dodd-Frank has been a disaster making it harder for small businesses to get the credit they need. You folks know that.
The policies of the Clintons brought us the financial recession through lifting Glass-Steagall, pushing subprime lending, and blocking reforms to Fannie and Freddie. Two friendly names but they’re not so friendly.
It’s time for a 21st-century glass Glass-Steagall and as part of that a priority on helping African-American businesses get the credit they need.
We will also encourage small business creation by allowing social welfare workers to convert poverty assistance into repayable but forgivable micro-loans. Very simple but something so good.
Then there’s the issue of public safety. Making our communities safe again will be a priority for the Trump administration. Safe.
Thank you. I love you, too.
Now I mean so many…so many people, so many people, I mean, you walk to the store to buy a loaf of bread maybe with your child and you get shot or your child get shot. Gotta stop it. No good. No good. We need safety.
I have heard and have listened to the concerns raised by African-American citizens about our justice system. And I promise that under a Trump administration, the law will be applied fairly, equally, and without prejudice. There will be no prejudice. There will be only one set of rules, not a two-tiered system of justice like we have right now.
You just see that with Hillary Clinton. I mean, think of it, think of it.
Think of it. She deletes 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress, and she has no trouble.
And in your community you know what you’re going through. Can you imagine if you did that?
Can you imagine if I did that? I’d think that they reinstitute the electric chair. Forget about you. How about me? Would I be in trouble?
It is so unfair. It is so unfair that she’s even allowed to run for the office of president.
And then you probably read $675,000 went to the wife of the head of the FBI, who was in charge of the investigation to her campaign. No, no…is this is this too hard to believe? I mean, went to the head of the FBI’s wife, who was in charge of the investigation of the Hillary Clinton email scandal.
And then you wonder gee…I wonder why she got off? That is a serious horrible thing. Look, it’s a horrible thing. It’s…It’s not even believable. I have people…great, great lawyers, they can’t even believe what’s happening.
The best evidence of unequal justice is that Hillary Clinton could violate so many laws, bleach and delete her 33,000 emails and especially after the subpoena from Congress, lied to Congress, lied to the FBI, put her national security at grave risk.

You know, our national security was put at unbelievable risk with what she was doing and not even face so much as a minor fine.
Now think of it. A major general, a man, four-star general, that’s about the top, General James Cartwright lied one time to the FBI and he probably did it. He did it in my opinion for national security reasons. He may go to jail for five-year sentence. Think of it. Five years. He may go to jail for five years. One time to the FBI.
She lied – looks like hundreds of times. Hundreds of time.
Hey, how about she couldn’t remember 39 times so each one of those 39 was a lie, right?
Equal justice also means the same rules for Wall Street. The Obama administration never held Wall Street accountable.
We will also police our streets. We have to make our streets safe.
I want every poor African-American child to be able to walk down the street in peace and not be scared and not be hurt.
The problem is not the presence of police but the absence of police. We need really a great group of people to keep you safe, to keep us all safe. To keep us all safe.
You know, the murder rate in the United States, I don’t know if you know this because the press never talks about it, is the highest it’s been – think of this – in 45 years. Nobody knows that. The murder rate – highest it’s been in 45 years.
I will invest in training and funding both local and federal law enforcement operations to remove the gang members, drug dealers, and criminal cartels from our nation.
The reduction of crime is not merely a goal. It’s a necessity for all of us. We will get it done.
The war on police urged on by my rival is really reckless. What’s happening is reckless and dangerous and puts African-American lives at risk. And all you have to do is look at the statistics and you see what’s happening.
We must work with our police, not against them. We’re going to work together. And we’re going to have an amazing relationship because you know everybody wants the same thing. We all really want the same thing.
Our immigration, that is, my policy on immigration is so simple.
We will restore the civil rights of African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans by ending illegal immigration, and yes, we will build the wall. We will build the wall.
And we’re going to stop the inflow, the massive inflow, of drugs, which is coming into your community more than any community but coming into your community and poisoning our youths and poisoning many other people. But poisoning our youths.
I will reform visa rules to give American workers preference for jobs, and I will suspend reckless refugee admissions from terror-prone regions that cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars.
A portion of the massive amounts of money saved by enforcing our laws and suspending refugees will be reinvested in our inner-cities.
Don’t forget, many of these refugees are coming from Syria and other parts of the world. We don’t know where they’re from, who they are, what their thought process is. And they’re being let in by the thousands and thousands and thousands, and Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550% increase over what President Obama is allowing.
We don’t what’s going to happen. This is the story of the Trojan horse. This is your second Trojan horse guaranteed.
I can tell you right now it’s not happening. Not with me. It will be ending. That will be ending.
We have enough problems in our country. It’s time to help the American citizens who have become refugees in their own country.
Infrastructure will be another major goal. My contract calls for $1 trillion in infrastructure investment of which the inner-cities will be a major beneficiary. We need something done.

It’s so bad. You look at your roads and you look at your everything. You look at your schools and hospitals. Everything is so bad.
I will also cancel all wasteful climate change spending from Obama plan.
We’re giving billions and billions of dollars away. We have no idea for what and others aren’t doing so much. Believe me, they are laughing. I’ll tell you that’s what they’re doing. They’re laughing at us. Including all global warming payments to the United Nations. Billions of dollars.
And listen to this, these steps will save $100 billion over eight years. And this money will be used to help rebuild the vital infrastructure, including water systems in America’s inner-cities.
You see Flint, Michigan and what’s happened there. But it’s horrible. I was there and it is unbelievable, horrible, incompetent politicians doing the wrong thing.
School choice is at the center of my plan. Such a great thing.
And by the way, we’re going to terminate Common Core and bring education local. So important.
Look, it’s not working the way it is now. I don’t know why anybody would even fight it. Well, we know who’s fighting it. You know that.
My proposal redirects education spending to allow every disadvantaged child in America to attend the public, private, charter, magnate, religious, or home school of their choice.
School choice is the great civil rights issue of our time, and I will be the nation’s biggest cheerleader for school choice in all 50 states. What a difference it will make.
I will also be establishing a commission which will include some of the tremendous people I met back stage today. Raise your hands. I mean, you people were so great. Some great ideas. To tackle the school to prison pipeline and to shut that pipeline down and to create – so important – to create a new pathway that leads from a great education instead to a great job. That’s what we want. It isn’t school to prison.
My plan will also ensure funding for historical black colleges and universities, more affordable two and four year college more affordable, and support for trade and vocational education.
You know, I’ve gone to school with many people, some totally brilliant at one thing but not at all brilliant at others.
But we all know this. We’ve all had students who have sat next to us in class, and they were terrible students. But they were phenomenal at fixing a car engine. They were phenomenal at fixing a television set. They can take it apart blindfolded. And I can’t do that and you can’t do that. But they were phenomenal at fixing things. We don’t do that anymore.
Remember we used to have this great vocational education? They were talented. They were great. They were horrible students and they were great. They can take a motor, they can take an engine apart blindfolded.
And we have to bring that back. And that’s what they love doing. That’s what they love doing. And they’ll do fantastically with it.
Don’t you think? Right? So true. So we’re going to get that going again.
Finally today, my agenda includes the protection of religious liberty.
It’s great. Nice to see. Very nice to see.
That’s something you will never hear from Hillary Clinton, that I can tell you.
The promotion of family and support for the African-American church. It’s been a tremendous power in this country for so many years.
This is just the beginning, because I will never, ever take the African-American community for granted. Never ever.
Unlike Hillary, who does nothing, does nothing, for the Hispanics or the African-American community.
It will be my mission to prove to this country that yesterday does not have to be tomorrow.
The vicious cycle of poverty can be broken and great new things can happen for all of our people. Great new things can happen.
But to achieve this future, we must reject the failed elites from Washington who have been wrong about virtually everything happening for decades.
Hey, they have been wrong about the wars. They’ve been wrong about jobs. They’ve been wrong about everything.
And the question is, are they stupid? The question is, are they stupid or do they have a plan?
I actually think, for the most part, they have a plan, but some are not too smart.
And you’re right about the swamp. Say it again. Right? You better believe it.
Boy, that is…That is a…You know I said that week ago, and they didn’t like it that much. It didn’t sound that great. The whole world picked it up. So it shows you what I know. It’s crazy.
Drain the swamp. We’re going to drain the swamp of Washington. We’re going to have fun doing it. We’re all doing it together. That is funny.
Funny how things like that happen. I was listening the other day to a great singer, great, one of the great legends, and said that certain said “Didn’t like it, Didn’t like it.” It became one of the greatest hits of all time. So drain the swamp. I didn’t like it. Now I love it, right?
The people opposing us promised that passing NAFTA and opening up our markets to China would bring a new era of jobs and prosperity. That didn’t happen. Instead, they brought only poverty and heartache and loss.
The people opposing us are the same people who we’ve, and think of this, who’ve wasted $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. That have produced only more terrorism, more deaths, more suffering.
Imagine if that money had been spend right here in our home.
We’ve totally destabilized the Middle East, and if you think about it, $6 trillion and was far better 15 years ago. So we’ve made it worse.
We’ve spent $6 trillion, lost thousands of lives. You could say hundreds of thousands of lives because look at the other side also. So we lost hundreds and thousands of lives and we’re far worse off than we were when we started.
Who are the people that do this?
And we end the war in such a bad way that a vacuum is formed, and we have ISIS. And that was the JV, the junior varsity, but now the JV is violent and vicious and ensconced in 32 different nations. And the one that gave us the JV now says how she’s going to get rid of it. Not going to happen, folks. Just words. Just words. Just words.
For 30 years she’s been talking. For 30 years, only bad things happened for her.
She tried to build democracy in Libya, and she failed.
She tried to build democracy in Iraq, and she failed.
She tried regime change in Egypt, and that was a disaster.
She pressed regime change in Syria, and that failed.
She tried a Russian reset; that was laughed at. Laughed at.
Putin has no respect for her whatsoever.
See, I’m not allowed to say it, but I’ll accept it.
Who said that? A star is born.

Now, if I said that, I’d be in big trouble.
She tried an Asia pivot and that failed.
Now Hillary Clinton wants to confront nuclear-armed Russia with a shooting war in Syria that could very well lead us into World War III. For what? She doesn’t get it. She doesn’t understand.
Remember, her top person says she has bad instinct. She’s got bad instincts.
And by the way, we want to be so strong. We want to make our military so strong. We want to take care of our vets better than they’ve ever been taken care of.
Peace through strength. Peace through strength. We have no choice. These are very vicious times. This is not a time to have a depleted, a depleted military. We’re not going to have that. We have the greatest people in the world in the military. We’re not going to have that but we are going to take care of our vets also.
Finally, our opponents passed a health care law embraced by Hillary Clinton over the furious objections of the American voter and most politicians…
He lied and lied. You can have your plan. You can have your doctor 28 different times. And enough Democrats went over to that side. They made a mistake.
Obamacare is now destroying our health care system.
Premiums are skyrocketing double digits and are surging by more than 100%.
And think of it, in the great state of Arizona, I love Arizona. It’s going up 118%.
Oh, but don’t worry you’re going to catch that too first.
Doctors are quitting, insurers are leaving, and companies are fleeing.
Every prediction they made about this law was a lie, and I said it was going to be no good before it was ever passed.
If we don’t repeal and replace Obamacare, we will lose our health care system forever.
We have to get rid of it. It’s a disaster. It’s too expensive. It doesn’t work. And you get no coverage. The deductible is so high that you’ll essentially never use it.
Now is the time to embrace a new direction.
I’ve been very lucky and I’ve led a great life. Now I want to give back to the country which I love and which is been so good to me.
I just left a hotel – beautiful, beautiful building. It was the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington D.C. and it’s mine. And it was just built. It’s right between the Capitol building and the White House.
So this way, I figure I’ll get to Washington one way or the other, right? Pennsylvania Avenue.
But I’m very proud of it and I’m very proud of my children because we delivered it under budget and ahead of schedule creating thousands of jobs, including construction.
It will be one of the finest hotels anywhere in the world and a great symbol for our country for many years to come.
I took two hours to fly in to Washington to cut the ribbon with my children and then jump on the plane to be here with you. Just did it.
I wanted to be there for my children, who worked so hard on the hotel. They worked so hard, in particular, Ivanka in this case.
And I always feel this. I feel this so strongly, parents must stick and encourage and support their children.
It would have been very bad. They work, work, work 24 hours a day, always working and then you say I’m not going. Takes the heart out of them, right? Don’t you think? I mean? They did a great job in the hotel and I told them so.
And Hillary said Donald Trump took time off the campaign. Can you believe it?
Here’s a woman who goes home and she goes to sleep all the time. Think of it. She’s got no energy whatsoever.
Everyone’s talking about the fact that I’ll do seven, eight, nine stops. I’ll make three or four major speeches, like for instance right after this, we have thousands and thousands of people in North Carolina coming to another one. Last night, 25,000 people. I got home at one o’clock in the morning.

Here’s a woman, she makes a speech for fifteen minutes. She goes home, goes to bed.
Honestly? She has less energy than Jeb Bush.
And the reason I bring him up – he didn’t sign the pledge so he’s open game. So he signed the pledge, right? But he didn’t honor it. How do you live with yourself? You know?
He signs a pledge and he doesn’t – so we figured. But how do you like that and then she had a speech today. She criticized me for going to the opening of this building, which was in and out. It’s not the way life works.
But I was also there for another reason. The workers. They did a magnificent job. They were there. And without them, it could never have been built so quickly or so beautifully.
The rebuilding we did at the Old Post Office is the rebuilding I want to do for our country. We’re going to rebuild our country.
I want to go into the inner cities, the poor rural communities and the failing schools, and I want to work on a national plan for total revitalization. We’re going to be so proud of our country again.
I’m tired of the excuses from our lame politicians. I’m tired of being told that it can’t be done. I’m tired of people asking Americans to defer their dreams for another day but they really mean for many decades.
Enough waiting. The time is now. There is nothing we cannot accomplish. There is no task or project too great. There is no dream outside of our reach.
Everywhere I go in this country, all I see is untapped potential, waiting to be set free. And maybe the greatest of that potential is in the African-American communities. There’s so much potential.
But we will never realize that potential if we continue putting our faith in a broken political system that has let us down time and time again.
We have to choose the more optimistic path. We have to choose to believe not in our politicians, not in these people that got us there, but to believe in ourselves and the future of our country.
If we do that, anything is possible.
So I’m asking America to join me in dreaming big and bold things for our future.
Let’s close the history book on the failures in Washington, and let’s open a new chapter of success and prosperity for everyone, especially now, especially for our African-American communities. And that’s going to happen.
I am very humbled beyond words to be the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people don’t know that. It’s the party of Abraham Lincoln.
And it is my highest and greatest hope that the Republican Party can be the home in the future and forever more for African-Americans and the African-American vote because I will produce and I will get others to produce and we know for a fact that it doesn’t work with the Democrats and it certainly isn’t going to work with Hillary.
Together, we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
And we will make America great again for all Americans.
Thank you very much. God bless you, everybody. Great honor to be here. Thank you. God bless you. What an honor. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all.

Thank you. Thank you very much.
We love New Hampshire, I can tell you that.
I need to open with a very critical breaking news announcement.
The FBI has just sent a letter to Congress informing them that they have discovered new e-mails pertaining to the former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s investigation.
And they are reopening the case into her criminal and illegal conduct that threatens the security of the United States of America.
Hillary Clinton’s corruption is on a scale we have never seen before. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office.
I have great respect for the fact that the FBI and the Department of Justice are now willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made.
This was a grave miscarriage of justice that the American people fully understood. And it is everybody’s hope that it is about to be corrected.
So that is a big announcement that I heard 10 minutes ago, and I guess obviously most of you folks have heard about.
And in all fairness for all of the people that have suffered for doing so much less, including just recently four-star General James Cartwright, General Petraeus, and many others. Perhaps finally justice will be done.
With that being said, the rest of my speech is going to be so boring. Should I even make the speech?
We will talk about borders. Right? We will talk about trade. We’ll bring back our jobs, we’ll strengthen our military. And let’s get going.
Okay?
I want to thank General Flynn, he’s a great general, and I want to thank you for being here, general. Thank you very much.
Just before General Flynn was going up we heard this news. I said, “General get up there and keep them busy. We want to digest what just happened here.”
Thank you, General.
In 11 days we are going to win New Hampshire, the state of my first victory. And we are going to win back the White House.
75% of the American people think our country is on the wrong track and we are going to fix it. We are going to get our country back on the right track, and very, very quickly.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare, and that is (inaudible), that is (inaudible).
We can’t forget how big a news that is. Okay? We can’t lose track.

It’s a disaster, just like everything else in this administration.
It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare premiums, including a 116% premium hike to our very good friends in the great state of Arizona.
Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, where people
wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half.
In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be almost 60%, the Democratic governor said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable.
Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare, admitted it was all a fraud and he said it was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter.
Hey, we’re doing a lot of good work, aren’t we? We’re catching all of these people. We’re doing a good job. Jonathan Gruber, there’s another. See, we didn’t forget. I never forgot Jonathan Gruber.
I said you know, if I do this, we’re going to run and his name came up and people forget after a week or two. I said I am never going to forget Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare and what he said. So we did not forget. Almost — can you imagine, it’s like a little more than a week before the election. We didn’t forget the name Jonathan Gruber.
But the only real stupidity is that shown by our politicians who passed this monstrosity over the furious objection of certain politicians and the American voter. Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged.
What I’ve just announced previously, it might not be as rigged as I thought. Right? Right?
The FBI — I think they’re going to right the ship, folks. I think they’re going to right the ship. And they’re going to save their great reputation by doing so.
Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, destroying American health care forever. She wants to expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive.
I will repeal and replace Obamacare, and we will replace it with a much less expensive plan and a plan that is much, much better.
Just this year, Hillary Clinton declared Obamacare is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, the Democratic Party, and our country. Well, that was — that’s turned out to be wrong.
Do they do anything right? We don’t win anymore.
We don’t — I mean, you’re going to have such a good time starting in ’17. We’re going to start winning again. We’re going to start winning again.
Because it’s turned out, and I’ve been saying this from before it passed, Obamacare is a catastrophe beyond imagination.
Insurers are leaving. Doctors are quitting. Companies are fleeing. Workers’ hours are being cut. Part-time jobs are all over the place. Those beautiful full-time jobs that you used to have don’t exist. And deductibles are through the roof. You don’t get to use it.
We don’t get rid of Obamacare, we have no choice. But if we don’t get rid of it, our health care system is gone forever. We’ll never have another chance.
And by the way, if we don’t win this election, you’re never going to have another chance either, that I can tell you. Never going to happen again.
Repealing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on Nov. 8th.
But real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington, and again, maybe that’s happening. Wow. We have a big day.
No, think of it, I won my first primary in New Hampshire. And I am getting here and the news this morning is — this is bigger than Watergate. This is bigger than Watergate, in my opinion. This is bigger than Watergate.

Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That alone to me – there were more serious things done, but how does it get much more? But that was so obvious.
She gets the subpoena and she bleaches and deletes 33,000 e-mails.
That to me — because it was so simple, you know? Not — it’s not about the sale of uranium that nobody knows what it means — I know what it means — to Russia.
Then she talks to me about Russia. 20% of the uranium in our country to Russia.
But you know, the deletion of 33,000 e-mails, boy, that just sort of is so out there, after receiving a subpoena from the United States government.
She lied to Congress. She lied to the FBI. She made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.
The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the deputy director of the FBI, and the man who was overseeing the investigation into Hillary’s illegal server but maybe that takes care of itself. Right now, that takes care of itself, I think. I think.
Very proud that the FBI was willing to do this actually. Really, very proud.
Just yesterday we learned that Bill Clinton’s right-hand man pushed for Clinton’s Foundation donors and other large corporations to funnel as much as $66 million in personal profit to Bill and Hillary Clinton.
This man explained that the cozy relationship between his consulting firm, foundation, and Clinton’s personal income had helped Bill and Hillary enrich themselves and obtained in-kind services, including personal travel, hospitality, vacations, and the like.
The same people paying Bill Clinton for speeches were lobbying Hillary Clinton at the same. The same time, same time. And — these people are seriously corrupt. Terrible conflict.
Hillary’s pay for play included defense contracts.
Take Raytheon. When the contractor wanted big foreign arms deals, they hired three lobbyists that raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Hillary’s last campaign and are raising money for her current campaign.
And by the way, 50 to 1 in ads. 50 to 1.
And if you look at Florida, we’re winning. Ohio, we’re winning. Iowa we’re winning. Doing great in New Hampshire. I think we’re going to have a tremendous victory in Pennsylvania. We better have a great victory in New Hampshire, please. Okay? I mean, give me a break.
In fact, when this news — when this news of the FBI’s investigation, when it just happened a little while ago, they said, “Mr. Trump, I think they’d understand. We could skip your speech in New Hampshire. This is so big.”
I said, “I don’t have the courage to skip the speech in New Hampshire.” Believe me, I don’t have the courage. I’m not skipping New Hampshire. I never will.
You know, when I won, and you remember because I go around and we had the big rallies, and they said “Oh, the big rallies will never work in New Hampshire. You have to sit down and have dinner with everybody.” I said that’s like — that’s a lot of dinners. They don’t expect that.
But you remember when we met, and I’d have a lot of small meetings too with people. We’d talk, and New Hampshire more than any other place taught me about drugs flowing into this country.
And your police department, so great, the police departments in New Hampshire, they told me. I went to some, I became friendly with some. And I never knew — I never knew, honestly, I knew it was bad, I never knew it was so bad.
And I said to the people of New Hampshire, because more than any other place, you look at the beautiful little roadways and lakes and streams, and everything is so beautiful, the trees, and you say how could they have a drug problem here? It doesn’t fit.
But I’d sit down with groups, and I said what’s your biggest problem? And I figured they’d say maybe the veterans which are suffering greatly in this area. We understand that. But it was always — and we’ll solve that problem. But it was always, you know what? It was always heroin. I’d say heroin? What do you mean?

And I learned so much. And I said to the people of New Hampshire that if I win, which I did with New Hampshire. If I win, and I also said, and if I go all the way, we are going to stop the inflow of drugs into New Hampshire and into our country 100%.
And I gave the people of New Hampshire my pledge, more than anybody else in this case, because they really taught me about what’s happening with the world of drugs pouring in. Hard to believe. It’s just so, so strange when you look and see the beauty of this place and then you see that heroin and drugs are your number one problem, by far.
Anyway, with months these lobbyists sealed over $26 billion in foreign arms deals, including over $19 billion in Qatar. Some people would say Qatar, which happened to be off Bill Clinton $1 million as a birthday gift for a few minutes of face time. $1 million.
The lobbyists, one of whom was the sister-in-law to Hillary Clinton’s current campaign chairman, received hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees. The contractor got billions of dollars in contracts. And Hillary Clinton got her campaign cash and money for her foundation.
And you know I’m putting up tremendous amounts of money. Today, I wrote another check for $10 million. I’m spending money like crazy. I’ll probably have over maybe close to or over $100 million of my money spent on the campaign.
But there’s something nice about that, unless I lose, in which case I say, “What was that all about?”
But we’re gonna do what’s right for you, not what’s right for some contributor or special interest.
Hillary put the office of the Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, believe me she would put the office — and you know what office I’m talking about — the office called the Oval Office up for sale too.
I propose a contract with the American voter which will end corruption and give government back to our great people.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words I’m about to say. And I never loved this expression but now I love it because it’s become — it’s become the hottest expression.
If we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. — when we win, okay? — and we are going to drain the swamp.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. You’ve been suffering with the jobs. The jobs have gone like candy being taken from a baby.
New growth numbers just released put the average growth rate for this year at a disastrous 1.5%.
If China goes down to 7% or 8% GDP, you know it’s like a national catastrophe.
Last quarter we were at 1%. Our job numbers last week were horrible. They were anemic, as the expression goes. They like to say anemic – that was the word they used.
Obama is the first president in modern history not to have a single year of 3% growth.
And they say it’s hard because we’re a large county.
Well, India is a much larger country and they’re at 8%. China is at 7%. And China’s not happy.
So we’re at around 1% and we just keep going along, just keep going along, losing our jobs to Mexico and every other place.
47 million Americans are on food stamps, and 45 million people — think of it, this is our country — are living in poverty.
Meanwhile our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year. You say, “Who negotiates these contracts?”
We’re living through Obama. It’s true. Obama. Obama.
You know, instead of campaigning for Hillary Clinton, he ought to be in the White House in the Oval Office negotiating trade deals, beating ISIS, taking care of our veterans, which he does not do.

We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. They’re stealing our jobs. Greatest in the history of the world.
New Hampshire has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary.
We’ve lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary disaster.
The Trump administration will immediately begin negotiating, and we will start this negotiation so fast. We will start a negotiation on NAFTA, and if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much, much better trade deal.
And I won’t go into the details. But because they’re different tax systems, they’re under a VAT system, and we’re under our system. But because of the fact that they’re under a much different tax system, the day the deal was signed, it was a defective deal, with us having a massive, at least 17% disadvantage.
So it’s complicated. I’m not going to bother you or bore you with it. But we’ve been working with a defective deal for years, and nobody, no politician ever went back to renegotiate it. We’re going to get it done, folks, so easily.
If a company wants to fire their workers and go to Mexico or another country and then they think they’re going to ship their products back into the United States, we will charge them a tax of 35%.
So when you think these companies, which right now are out there negotiating to leave here. They’ll leave New Hampshire. They’ll leave Pennsylvania. They’re gonna leave Ohio. They’re gonna leave all of these places, all of our great places and great states. And right now as we’re talking, they’re negotiating deals.
Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world in terms of the new plants.
A friend of mine builds plants. He’s the biggest. He said the eighth wonder of the world what’s happening in Mexico. And I say, and I tell this to people, what about us? He said meh, not gonna be — it’s gonna be the other way around.
But there will be consequences. And you know, when they realize that they’ve got to now pay a tax, all of that, to come through our very strong border, because there will be a strong border, with their product, you know what they’re gonna say? They’re gonna say “Let’s stay. We’re not gonna move”, and they’re gonna stay. It’s very simple.
But the politicians don’t want to do that because they’re controlled — they’re controlled by the people that give them their campaign contributions and probably other things. We will — does anybody know what I mean by that?
We will also stand up to Chinese currency manipulation, and we will stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world, and it has now spread into our country.
There are right now 1,000 open ISIS investigations across the United States, more than at any time that we’ve ever had.
Now, Hillary wants to increase by 550% the massive number of Syrian refugees flowing into our country. That’s over the Obama numbers, and those are thousands and thousands of people.
A Trump administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And we’ll help them with safe havens and we’ll get other countries over there, like the Gulf states who have nothing but money. We have $20 trillion in debt. We’ll get them to pay. They gotta do their share. We’ll lead it. We’ll help. They’ll pay. But you know what? We can’t let people into this country that we don’t know about. We don’t know.
Let me state this as clearly as I can. If I’m elected president, I am going to keep…When…
We love New Hampshire. I love this place. I love this place.
By the way, you know, we’re leading in Florida. We’re leading in all these places.

The recent poll said we’re two down in New Hampshire. You know what I said? I don’t think so, I don’t think so.
These polls, these polls, these are called dirty polls. You know what that is? These are false. I don’t think so.
She comes up here. She has four people, and it’s like “Oh, we have a wonderful crowd.”
I don’t think so. I think we’re winning New Hampshire big.
Okay. So we’ll change it. When I’m elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
Boy, do you people have energy. You’re great.
Well, let’s face it, it’s been a long time, right? It’s been a long time. You’ve been waiting a long time for the right person, but you do have energy.
You know what’s happening? A lot of these places… A lot of the different places, reports are coming out. They hate to write it, you know the dishonest media.
But people — by the way, great people.
Oh they’re the worst. They’re so dishonest. They are so dishonest, folks.
But a lot of these reports coming out in the early voting states, people are coming up that have never voted. These are great Americans. These are great people, but they’ve just never seen anybody that they wanted to like. They’ve never heard people say we’re going to actually bring back your jobs. We’re not going to let companies leave us and fire everybody and move and then let the product pour into our country with no tax.
No, no, just go ahead, leave, fire all our people, move to Mexico, make the product, sell your air conditioners — Carrier’s an example, they’re leaving — they might not leave, they’re probably all about ready to change their mind. But just let your product come right in, no tax, no nothing.
I mean, how stupid is this? How stupid?
And I’m a free-trader. I’m a fair trader. But we have the wrong people represent us.
So what’s happening is these lines in Florida are four blocks long. They were never like that. They’ve never seen anything like it.
And in Tennessee, a great congressman, been there for 25 years, said to me, “I’ve never seen — we have never seen anything like it.”
People are coming out that haven’t voted in years. People are coming out, they literally — they hadn’t voted in years.
So they’re not polled because, you know, unless you voted like in the last election, they don’t want to poll you.
So, people are coming out that hadn’t voted in years. Happening in Texas. They haven’t voted in years. And people that have never even voted, and yet they’re great Americans. They just never saw somebody that they wanted to vote for.
And they’re coming out and they’ve got the Trump shirt and they’ve got the hat, they’ve got buttons all over the place, you know.
Now, who knows? Who knows? They may have all of the Trump stuff and you never know. Maybe they’re voting for crooked Hillary Clinton. But I don’t think so, right? I don’t think so.
History has taught us that we don’t think so. So, I think we’re doing great.
And yes, on the border, we have no choice. We will build a wall and Mexico will pay for the wall. Got to stop the drugs. Got to stop the drugs.
Remember my pledge to everybody but in particular to New Hampshire, because I know what you’re going through with the drugs. I know what your incredible law enforcement, your police and your fire departments, because I see where they’re helping so much. Believe me, they’re — they’re not spoken about.
And how about where they’re shooting? During fires, they’re shooting at the firemen. Now, this is a new phenomenon. They’re shooting at firemen. They’re shooting bullets at firemen going to fires and fighting fires.
So we have a divided country, and we’re going to make our country love again. We’re going to bring it like this room.
Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration.
This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root.
You’ve heard that story. You’ve seen it. You’ve read about it.
The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody and then was released into the United States community under the policies of this White House.

He released again and again after crime after crime and now is at large.
Sarah graduated from college just the day before with a 4.0 grade point average. Top in her class. She was violently, violently killed. Outstanding young woman. I know her parents; they’re incredible.
Also among the victims of Obama-Clinton open borders policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from federal custody. And so many people said, “Please, please, please don’t release him. He’s violent.” And he shot Grant through the head.
Another victim who we’ve all read about and known about, Kate Steinle, gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant. And this person was deported five previous times. And now, he’s got a good lawyer and the case will go on and on and on. He’s got a lawyer. I see them in court all the time. The case will go on and on. Shot in the back while standing with her father. Great parents, great brother.
Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long but who did not meet the Obama administration’s priorities for removal. People begged that they be incarcerated or be moved out of the country, but our geniuses wouldn’t listen.
In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never deported. People asked please, please deport him.
This is what happened. This is a crime wave that never ends. I can tell you it’s thousands of cases like this.
When I’m president, believe me, it will end.
Not only will a wall keep out the dangerous cartels and criminals, but will also keep out the drugs, remember New Hampshire, and the heroin poisoning our youth. Our youth is being poisoned before they get a chance.
And by the way, I’ve met plenty of people in New Hampshire that are not our youth that have a tremendous problem, and I want to tell you, we’re going to work with people. We’re going to set up programs. We’re going to try everything we can to get them unaddicted, unaddicted.
So as I said, when I won the New Hampshire primary, I promised the people of New Hampshire that we would stop drugs from pouring into your community and I guarantee you we will.
You will be so proud of your president, you will be so proud of your community. You will be so proud.
I just want to say in closing — I just want to say in closing that we have an amazing movement going on. A movement like they’ve never seen before. A movement that hopefully won’t be stopped.
We have a movement that the biggest people in the world of the media, the biggest, have said they’ve never seen anything like it before. Every — every crowd, every auditorium.
The other night, we had a situation. We had thousands and thousands of people. And I said to the fire marshal, “Isn’t it possible to let more in?” We had thousands of people in this massive field, and we had many thousands outside of the gates they wouldn’t let in. And I said, “Couldn’t we let them in?” And they said, “We can’t.” I said, “But there’s no fire. We’re outside.” He said, “It’s stampede, Mr. Trump. We’re worried about a stampede.”
And it’s a stampede of love. It’s true. It’s not a stampede — it’s a stampede of love. Because there was so many people. They said, “We have very strong security guards, but Mr. Trump, they’re not nearly strong as 45,000 people come charging forward.” So I fully understood it.
But we have something going on that’s so special. It’s so special.
We’re going to reduce your taxes. We’re going to simplify your taxes. We’re going to make your businesses welcome in our country.

We’re going to reduce the taxes for middle income people. We call them the forgotten man and women.
Greatly simplify your returns.
The only company that I can think of that won’t like us is H&R Block. They will not like it. They’re not going to like Trump too much.
But will simplify your taxes. And your businesses, we’re taking it from 35%. which is one of the highest in the world, just about the highest, down to one of the lowest in the world, 15%.
We’re getting rid of a lot of the regulations that are stopping growth. Tremendous amounts of regulations are killing your small businesses and your big businesses.
So we’re going to have a very tax friendly country again, and it’s going to mean jobs, it’s going to mean expansion, it’s going to be new companies growing.
We are going to create the border. We are going to stop the drugs. We’re going have people come into our country.
We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in through a legal process. We want a lot of people to come in and they’re going to come in but they’ll come in legally. And we’re going to streamline the process; people are waiting on line now 10 years. We’re going to streamline it because we want them to come in but we want them to come in legally.
And we want merit too. We want to take wonderful, great people that love our country, and they want to get out and they want to do a great job. We want to have them also come in based on merit. A word you don’t hear anymore. A word you don’t hear anymore. It’s too bad.
We’re also going to, very importantly, appoint justices to the Supreme Court who you can be proud of and who will respect the Constitution of the United States.
We’re going to save our Second Amendment, which is under unbelievable siege.
We’re going to help big league on education. We’re going to go with choice, so important, and we’re going to terminate Common Core and bring education local.
Our military is depleted. We are going to rebuild our military. We are going to lead through strength, and hopefully, we’re not going to have to use our military.
But I will say this, ISIL, we’re getting rid of ISIS. We are getting rid of ISIS. ISIS is we have no choice.
By the way, not since medieval times has anyone seen anything – chopping off of heads, drowning in steel cages, burying in sand. Not since, not since medieval times.
It all grew during the tenure of Obama and Hillary Clinton – ISIS.
And you know, she stands up and she says what she’s going to do. Well, she was there. It came out of the vacuum, because we should’ve never gone to Iraq, but once we did, we should’ve gone out the right way, not the wrong way. And the way they went out was so sad, so bad, including giving back Mosul, which now they’re fighting to take back.
And it would have been nice, the element of surprise – do we agree, does anybody not agree? The element of surprise. We don’t use the element of surprise. We use the element of tell them everything we can possibly tell them, give them plenty of time to get ready, and then attack. And it turns out to be a lot tougher than they ever thought.
But we’re going to have a country you’re going to be proud of again.
We are going to have a president that hopefully, you will be proud of.
I will work so hard for every community. I’ll be working very hard for the African-American community, for the Hispanic community. I’ll be working hard for every community. And we’re going to have this divided nation come together.
And I just want to say, we’re going to make America strong again. We’re going to make America, it doesn’t sound nice, but we have no choice, wealthy again. But we are going to make America great again.
And I want to thank everybody in New Hampshire. Get out and vote. You’re very special people. You are very, very special people.
God bless you. Get out and vote. Thank you, thank you, New Hampshire.

Unbelievable.
People don’t know, I worked in Ohio, did you know that? And I had a great experience.
And if I didn’t have a great experience starting out when I was very young, maybe I wouldn’t be here right now, who knows? You need that. It was great for confidence also.
In 12 days, we’re going to win Ohio, and we are going to win back the White House.
A brand new poll from Remington Research — highly respected — has just a few minutes ago come out, and in Ohio we are right now, four points up.
Early voting is underway, so make sure, get out and vote, we don’t wanna — we don’t wanna give this away.
You know, we have a movement going on like they’ve never seen before in this country.
Drain the swamps. You’ve got a “drain the swamp” sign back there. We’re going to drain the swamp, believe me.
But this is a movement like they’ve never seen in this country before, and every place is packed, and the greatest people on Earth, and we’re going to turn our country around. We’re turning it around fast.
75% of the people think our country is headed in the wrong direction. We know it’s headed in the wrong direction. We’re going to fix it. We’re going to take our country back, and it’s going to be put very quickly on the right track.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare. You see that.
Including premiums like in the great state of Arizona, where they’re going to go up at 116%. Don’t worry, you’ll be there very soon, unless I win in which case you’re not going to have to worry about it.
Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare is quote, “The craziest thing in the world, where people wind up paying their premiums which double, and their coverage is cut in half.”
Job killing…Job killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged.
Remember the name Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare?
He said they could pass Obamacare — when he didn’t know he was being recorded — he said they could pass Obamacare, because the stupidity of the American voter will allow it to take place.
The only stupidity was that incredible stupidity shown by our politicians when they forced this bill through over the furious objection to many politicians, in all fairness, many, many politicians, but really the American people. And it was very, very sad.
And in all fairness to the Democrats, had our president not lied 28 times — remember, you can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor, it passed by this much — they would not have gone for it. But they believed him too, like everybody else believed him.
They’ve caught them in a lot of lies lately, folks.
Hillary Clinton, talking about liars, wants to double down – Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare and make it even worse.
So, here, I’m going to repeal it, replace it. We’re going to have a replacement that is so much less expensive and so much better.
You don’t even get to use Obamacare because the deductible is so high and, you know, it’s just…
Look, it is so — it is so out of control, you’ll never get to use it. $4,000, $5,000 before you can start taking…
Just this and just happened, Hillary Clinton declared that Obamacare — do you remember this — not so long ago – as one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our county. It’s a total disaster.

Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare. Good luck, good luck in negotiations, folks.
That means that all the residents covered by plans from these companies will be getting cancellation notices very soon.
Obamacare is really — and you know this — a catastrophe, it’s a catastrophic event for Ohio workers and is making it impossible for many parents to pay their bills, support their families, or get quality medical care to their children.
Repealing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November eighth.
Have to win.
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington, D.C.
Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phone calls. I mean 13, 13 phones, made them disappear, sometimes with a hammer. Right? Wrong, wrong. Let’s get rid of these… And then told the FBI she could remember 39 different times.
The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the Deputy Director of the FBI, and the man who was overseeing the investigation into Hillary’s illegal server, a server we now know Obama knew about. Just found that out yesterday. WikiLeaks.
The more e-mails WikiLeaks releases, the more lines between the Clinton Foundation, the Secretary of State’s office, and the Clintons’ personal finances, they all get blurred.
Just today we read about Clinton confidante Doug Brand bragging that he had funneled tens of millions of dollars to Bill Clinton, Inc., through the Foundation donations, paid speeches, and consulting contracts.
Mr. Band called the arrangement unorthodox. The rest of us call it outright corrupt.
In fact, the Clinton Foundation even hired a law firm to find out if their pay to play scheme would jeopardize their charitable status with the IRS.
If the Clintons were willing to play this fast and loose with their enterprise when they weren’t in the White House, just imagine what they’ll do given the chance to once again control the Oval Office.
And we’ve had enough. Honestly, I think we’ve had enough of the Clintons, in all fairness. Right? Don’t you agree?
Had enough. I mean at what point, at what point do we say it?
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency.
I proposed a contract with the American voter that will end the corruption and give the government back to the people.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words I’m about to say.
If we win on Nov, 8th, when… Okay. Okay. When we win on Nov. 8th.
We don’t want to take it for granted, but we are winning in a lot of states, I have to say.
The media now, they’re going wild. The media’s going wild. Because they’re saying, you know, this guy’s winning in Florida, he’s winning in North Carolina, he’s winning in Iowa, he’s winning in Ohio.
All right. When we win, right, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp.
A lot of spirit in this room — it’s a good one.
That includes a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.

At the core of my contract is my economic plan. That plan can be summarized in three very beautiful words, especially for the people in this area and this room – jobs, jobs, jobs.
No, it’s terrible what’s happened in this area. What’s happened to this country with jobs is terrible.
Hillary Clinton promised to bring upstate New York 200,000 jobs when she ran for Senate. Instead, the jobs left. They didn’t come in. They left.
She’s been there for 30 years and hasn’t fixed anything. She’s just made things worse except for herself and her husband.
47 million Americans are on food stamps and 45 million Americans live in poverty.
Nearly 1 in 4 Americans in their prime earning years are not working or able to work.
70 million American women and children are in poverty or in the brink of poverty, and nearly half of African-American children under the age of 6 are living in abject poverty.
Our national debt has doubled in eight years, and our infrastructure throughout our country is crumbling. Bad shape. Our airports, our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.
Our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Think of it. And that’s so true. It’s the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. What our politicians have allowed to happen to this area but to all areas of our country – NAFTA, TPP they want to approve. A disaster.
Ohio has lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton.
Remember, every time you see a closed factory or a wiped out community in Ohio, it was essentially caused by the Clintons. It was NAFTA. It was caused by the Clintons.
Why a deal like that was allowed. We’ve lost 70,000 factories. Think of that one. 70,000. I tell everybody – it’s a typo. Can’t be 70,000. It is.
We’ve lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
Just this year, Eaton Corporation in Ohio closed its plant, laid off 152 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico. And you’ve had many and I could name them all day long.
Under my contract, if a company wants to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries, and ship their products back into the United States, we will put a 35% tariffs on those products.
And folks, just in case you have any questions, when that happens you’re not losing your companies anymore. And if you do, at least the country’s going to make a lot of money. Okay?
We will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA. And if we don’t get the deal we want, right now it’s a one-way highway, we lose our jobs. We lose our company. We lose our cash.
I’d say they get the cash. They get the jobs. They get the companies. We get the drugs. We get the unemployment. That’s what we get. We get nothing. We get less than nothing.
We will terminate and get a much better deal for our workers if we can’t renegotiate it properly. We’re going to get a better deal for our workers and for our companies because we cannot continue to be the people led by stupid people. We can’t. We can’t.
As part of our plan to bring back American jobs, we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35% down to 15%.
We will also cut taxes for middle class families by 35% and massively simplify taxes for all Americans.
We will be a rich nation once again.

But to be a rich country, we also must be a safe country.
Hillary Clinton released ISIS into the world. You know that story. And spreading violently and spreading now into the United States.
There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in the United States.
ISIS is on a campaign for a genocide of Christians in the Middle East or what they call the Nation of the Cross. Okay? The Nation of the Cross.
They are crucifying, drowning and beheading their victims. This is something we would read about in history books, and not since medieval times have you heard about the beheading and all the things that are happening.
So we have no choice. We will stop ISIS and we stop them fast.
And unlike what they’ve done in Mosul, which is turning out to be very difficult, we’re not giving three and four months notice. We’re coming in. We’re coming in.
You think General George Patton would say “We are coming in 3 or 4 months. Get ready”? What a bunch.
They’re throwing people off buildings, hanging their victims from meat hooks. They’re hanging their victims from meat hooks.
The New York Post just published reports about ISIS crushing children to death and burning adults alive.
Now Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous region of the world, where ISIS operates, including a 550% increase in Syrian refugees over and above the thousands and thousands that President Obama has taken.
We don’t want ISIS in our country.
The Hillary refugee plan would leave us generations of terrorism, radicalism, and extremism inside of our shores.
I only want to admit people who will support this country and love its people. So important.
Keeping our families safe is the highest obligation of the president of the United States.
A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror prone region, and we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. That was easy.
We’re not going to take the risk when it comes to the safety of the American people, no longer.
So let me state this as easy as I can. If I am elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
Hillary also said she wants totally open borders. No one who supports open borders can ever serve as president of the United States. Totally open borders.
A Trump administration will also secure, defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a wall. After. We have to.
And who is going to pay for the wall? 100%. Mexico, in terms of our trade deficits, is making a fortune off the United Sates. Their leaders who are doing a much smarter job.
But you know what? We’ll be happy with Mexico, and Mexico is going to be wonderful, and we’re going to have a great relationship with Mexico, with China, and with other.
We don’t have even have good relationships right now. They rip us off and we still don’t get along.

At least they should be nice to us. They’re not even nice. They’ll be nice.
Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants.
Right here in Ohio, 60-year-old old Margaret Kostelnik was murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant. Earlier that day, her killer shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime scene, but federal authorities refused to take him into custody, even though people were saying, “Please, please don’t let him out. Please take him in.”
Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, a Minnesota farmer who was brutally beaten by illegal immigrants and left to bleed to death in his home. Earl’s body was found with his hands bound behind his back in duct tape. A blunt force injury to his head. His killers had criminal records but they did not meet the Obama administration’s priorities for removal. But others that knew him and others that knew them were pleading, were pleading, “Don’t let them out. Don’t let them into our society.”
I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers, and the gang members. When I win, your long reign of crime and terror and horror will come to a very beautiful crashing end.
We will also repeal Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military.
Our Air Force is the smallest and oldest it’s ever been. Did you know that? Because I know what you have here.
You guys are good with Wright Patterson. Right? What a great place.
But we’re very depleted. We have old equipment. We will build brand new, modern, state of the art planes to fly right at ’em, right at Wright Patterson Air Force Base.
We have a lot of veterans here today. I want to thank them for their service, and let them know as president I have your back. Believe me.
I have your back. We will.
She just said, “Make America great again, Mr. Trump.”
We will make America great again. Don’t worry about it. We will. And it won’t take too long.
We will change our foreign policy.
Hillary Clinton’s policies in Iraq, Syria, Libya threw the Middle East into total turmoil. We’re spending $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East while our own country falls into total disrepair.
Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, conflict with a nuclear power – Russia – which could very well lead to World War III.
And the way she talks about Putin. She’s always said she has no idea, but she’s always saying — WikiLeaks, it’s Russia and Donald Trump — I have nothing to do with Russia.
She said maybe Donald Trump is involved in projects with the Russians. The answer’s no, no.
But what she does, she says Donald Trump and Russia.
Look, look, she speaks so badly of Putin, nuclear country, she speaks so badly, I say — and she uses it to try and get votes.
I said to myself you know, how do you speak so badly of somebody, I mean how are they going to ever get along? Wouldn’t it be great if we actually got along with Russia and other countries?
And we together went after ISIS and knocked the hell out of them? Wouldn’t that be a good thing? Because they want to get them out also.
But she speaks very badly of Putin, and I don’t think that’s smart, you know.
You can be very tough, but you shouldn’t be doing what she’s doing.
As her own team has said in WikiLeaks, she has terrible instincts.
To all Americans I say it’s time for new leadership, it really is time. It really is.
Can you imagine four more years of Obama? That’s what you got to —
It’s high taxes. It’s high regulations, all these companies they can’t even breathe with the regulations. Unnecessary.

It’s ISIS all over the place. You know, she said she’ll stop ISIS.
Let me tell ya, there was no ISIS. There was no ISIS.
During her term, she created with Obama a vacuum in Iraq. ISIS formed, and then Obama called them the JV, junior varsity, right? Well, they’re not the JV anymore, folks.
They’re gonna be no trouble. We are going to knock them so hard. But look, look, they’re not the JV and they weren’t then. And now, they’re in 32 different countries. So she’s saying we will get rid of ISIS.
She wants to go back home and go to sleep, that’s what she wants to do.
Did you see where she got upset yesterday because I took a little while, just a few hours, to cut a ribbon to make sure my kids did a good job?
We built the building, by the way, under budget and ahead of schedule.
And she said, “Donald Trump got off the campaign trail.” I mean, I’ve been doing 6, 7, 8 things a day every single day.
She’s home sleeping half the time. I say, she’s definitely a low-energy person. I said, “Where is Hillary?”
I watched after the last debate and after the second debate, she was tired. Wow. She walked off that stage pushing a lot of people around. They had a lot of people around her, which was fun.
Everything will change in November.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.
We’re going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core.
We’re going to rebuild our military and take care of our vets.
We will support the truly great men and women of law enforcement.
We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.
And we’ll appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, so important, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Americans are tired of being told by politicians they have to defer they’re dreams to another day, but they really mean another decade.
It’s like our politics are caught in time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over again. Clinton, Clinton, oh, Clinton. The impeachment, the lying, the whole thing.
We’re going to keep making the same mistakes if you keep doing that. And we are going to continue to hear the same old excuses.
These career politicians keep telling us that things can change. That we can find new solutions. That’s basically what they tell us.
Well, I have a message for them. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
I’m asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big and bold things for our future.
I’m going to fight for every American of every background in every stretch of this nation.
I’m going to fight to liberate our citizens from violence and poverty and crime and fear.
And I’m going to fight for the inner cities and for the African-American community. And the way they’re forced to live in the inner cities with no jobs, no education, and no safety.
I’m going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
I’m going to fight to bring us all together as Americans.
Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together again as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
It’s right. Once again we will have a government of, by, and for the people.

You got to get out and vote. It’s going to be something special.
And I tell you this and I tell others this sometimes. This is an amazing group of people. The spirit, the energy, the genius. The genius.
But you will say that this will be one of the great and most important meetings of your life.
But most importantly, you will say that this vote will be the most important vote you’ve ever cast.
Because our country doesn’t win anymore. We don’t win with trade. We don’t win with our great military. We don’t allow them to win. We don’t win with ISIS. The world is laughing at us. We don’t win at the borders. We don’t win with taking care of our vets. We don’t win with anything. We don’t win anymore.
We will start winning again like you’ve never seen before.
And I can say that one of our great two congressmen who are here some place – where are those great guys? They’re here. They’re going to be coming to see me at the White House. And they’re going to say, “Mr. President. Mr. President, sir, Mr. President, the people of Ohio, they can’t take it anymore, sir. You’re winning too much. You knocked out ISIS. There are too many jobs in Ohio. Too many companies are pouring in. We have a little traffic.”
Traffic wouldn’t be a bad thing. Right? Every time you see traffic, remember, it’s not such a bad thing.
“Mr. President, you’re winning too much. Please, please stop winning so much. We’re not used to it.”
I’d say, “Listen, congressmen, we are going to continue to win. We are going to win like never before.”
We are going to make our country wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Make sure you go out and vote.

He’s something. Coach Knight. No games, right? With him, there’s no games.
Thank you, Coach. Thank you, General.
What a combination those two are, right?
Boy, this is a great group. You know, we set this up about 24 hours ago because I hear we’re doing great in Michigan. We’re going to win Michigan.
We’re doing great in every poll. I mean, we’re doing amazing. We’re winning in Ohio. We’re winning in Iowa. We’re winning in North Carolina. We’re winning in Florida. We’re winning big in Texas.
You know, they were saying Texas is setting new voting records. We’re winning all over the place folks. This is going to be something special.
In eight days, we’re going to win the great state of Michigan, and we are going to win back the White House. 100%.
Let me start today by making a very important promise to you.
When I win on Nov. 8th, I am going to bring your jobs back to America.
You know it better than anybody else in this country. The long nightmare of jobs leaving Michigan will be coming to a very rapid end.
We’re going to make Michigan the economic envy of the entire world once again. Used to be the economic envy.
The political class in Washington has betrayed you. They’ve uprooted your jobs, your communities, and they’ve shipped your wealth all over the world to Mexico and all over. They put new skyscrapers up in Beijing while your factories in Michigan were crumbling. These were our politicians.
I will end the theft of American prosperity. Believe me.  I will fight for every last Michigan job. You’re going to have plenty of jobs. Get ready. Because, when we win, it’s going to be America first.
So, you have to make sure you get in your absentee ballots and get out to the polls on Nov. 8th. You have to get those ballots in.
Anybody send in the ballots? Anybody? All right, big thing: Nov. 8th.
We’ll never have a chance to do this again. We’ve created a movement. This is like a great movement that the whole world is talking about. And honestly, you’ll never have this chance.
In four years, I don’t care who it is that runs. You’ll never have this chance, so you have to get out and vote. Vote with all of your heart. Vote with all of your soul. Because this is it.
Show the whole world how much you love Michigan and how much you love America by voting, so that we take back our jobs and we rebuild our military, and we do so many other things including border.
We’ve got to have a border. I’m asking for your vote. We will build the wall. Do not worry about it. Do not worry.
We don’t build the wall, Bobby Knight’s going to be very angry at me, so we’re going to build the wall.
And you know what else? You know who’s paying for the wall, right? 100%. They don’t quite know that yet, but they’re going to find out.
No, they’re good. I met with the president of Mexico couple of months ago. He was great. The whole thing is going to work out, but we’re going to have to have a wall. We have to stop the poison from flowing in.
You know the poison are the drugs. They’re flowing in. They’re poisoning your state. They’re poisoning New Hampshire.
New Hampshire tells me and for a year and a half with New Hampshire, they’ve been telling me stories, unbelievable. But every state.
The poison is pouring in and we’re going to stop the drugs. We’re going to stop those drugs fast.
Then we’re going to work on the people that are so badly addicted. We’re going to get them better.
I’m asking for the vote of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters who want great jobs, safe neighborhoods, and a government that works for the people.
I’m asking you, so importantly, to believe in America once again.

But to bring back your jobs, we must also immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.
What a disaster. It’s just been announced that Michigan residents are gong to experience crushing, double-digit premium hikes. Congratulations. Congratulations.
In fact, the number is so high, I don’t want to give it to you because I want you to have a good time today, okay? I don’t want to ruin your day. I’ll see you just sort of slump out of here.
Now, by the way, any place more fun to be than a Trump rally?
And, and honestly, the subject right now isn’t so positive, because it’s what is going on with the country, but we’re going to make it so positive, okay? We’re going to make it so positive.
In Minnesota where the premium, I mean you have to see what happens in Minnesota but the increase is over 60%.
The Democratic governor has said, and he’s a big Democrat, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. He took a little heat for that.
Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. In fact, much more expensive than ever before. She’s going to double-down.
In all fairness, folks, based on what we’re reading, in all fairness, I think right now she has bigger problems than Obamacare.
They may have gotten wise to the Clintons. Perhaps they finally got wise.
Well, thank you. I love you too.
And I have to give the FBI credit. That was so bad what happened originally and it took guts for Director Comey to make the move that he made in light of the kind of opposition he had with them trying to protect her from criminal prosecution. You know that.
It took a lot of guts. I really disagreed with him. I was not his fan but I’ll you what, what he did, he brought back his reputation. He brought it back. He’s got to hang tough, ‘cause there’s a lot of people want him to do the wrong thing. What he did was the right thing.
I’m asking for your vote, so we can replace Obamacare and save the health care, and look, healthcare in this country is in such dire straights. We’re going to save health care for every family in Michigan, for every family in our country.
Much less expensive. Much better health care. Repeal and replace. We have so many alternatives, so much better, so much less expensive.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
As you know, the FBI has reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton and discovered, and discovered, you heard this yesterday, it’s hard to believe, and discovered another 650,000 emails.
She lied under oath. When she turned over all her work-related emails. Just one more lie out of so many.
And you know, General [James] Cartwright, a four-star general, lied one time, and I think he did it actually for national security purposes. He lied one time. He may go to jail for five years.
She’s lied so many times and the deletions.
This is the biggest scandal since Watergate.
Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles. But she has brought all of this on herself.
Hillary is the one who set up an illegal private email server in a closet to shield her criminal activity.
Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt pay for play scheme at the State department.
Now there are five FBI probes into the Clinton Foundation and their pay for play activities.

Very, very deep investigations.
Hillary is the one who sent and received classified information on an insecure server, putting the safety of the American people under threat. That’s what she did.
650,000. You know what I call that? That’s the mother load.
I think you’re going to find the 33,000 that are missing, the 15,000 that are missing, the batch that are missing two weeks ago. You know, they had boxes of emails missing two weeks ago.
I think we hit the mother load, as they say in the good old mining industry.
Hillary is the one who lied to Congress under oath. Hillary is the one who lied on so many different occasions to the FBI, and they know, they know.
They know Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.
Hillary is the one who destroyed 33,000 e-mails after she got the subpoena. After. Before it’s no good, but after? No, that’s why something should have happened then but that’s okay.
Hillary is the one who broke the law over and over and over again.
We can be sure that what is in those e-mails is absolutely devastating, and I think we’re going to find out, by the way, for the first time.
Thank you, Huma. Thank you, Huma. Good job, Huma.
Thank you, Anthony Weiner.
And you all saw the statements I made about him a year ago? You know, in New York we knew Weiner. And I made statements that were rough. Like how can she be allowed to live with this guy? How can she have access to this important information? And I was badly criticized, right?
Now they are saying, “Uhh, Trump has good judgment, wow.”
Got good instincts. I’ve good instincts.
Hillary is not the victim. The American people are the victims of this corrupt system in every way.
And this is your one chance, right now, Nov. 8th, to change it.
Hillary is likely to be under investigation for a very long time.
One of her longtime supporters, a top Democratic pollster, good guy, smart guy, sharp guy, Doug Schoen, is now totally withdrawing his support.
He supported that family for years. He wrote in an article, he wrote in an article quote, “I’m a Democrat. I worked for Bill Clinton but I can’t vote for Hillary.”
And this is so important, Schoen writes, “I’m now convinced that we will be facing the very real possibility of a constitutional crisis with many dimensions and deleterious – and we all know that – consequences should Secretary Clinton win the election.”
Now, I don’t think that’s going to happen so hopefully. If that happens, we did a bad job out here, folks.
Schoen warns that if Hillary is elected, she would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I will say. So we’d have a criminal trial for a sitting president.
In the meantime, Putin, who she likes to say bad things about, and all the other leaders, many of whom she says bad things about, then you wonder why the world hates us. But all of these people will sit back and they will laugh and they will smile.
The investigation will last for years. The trial would probably start. Nothing will get done.
I can tell you that your cars will continue to leave Michigan. Your car production facilities, like the Ford facility, will continue to leave Michigan.
Nothing’s going to get done. Our country will continue to suffer.
She’s unfit and unqualified to be the president of the United States.

And her election would mire our government and our country in a constitutional crisis that we cannot afford.
Folks, we have to get back to work. We need to get back to work. We need to be going to work for the American people.
We can’t do what Hillary would like to do, and that’s become president. You can’t take it. I can’t take it. Nobody can take it.
And by the way, we do not need four more years of Obama. That I can tell you right now. That I can tell you.
Four more years of ISIS running wild. Four more years of no borders. Four more years of losing all your jobs. Four more years of a depleted military.
We’re not building up our military for the great people in our military.
Hillary – well, that’s right.
Hillary Clinton’s corruption – eight days, you’re right – is a threat to democracy.
And the only way to save our democracy is to get out and vote by the millions. By the millions. Don’t leave it to chance.
We’re all hearing about our system is so honorable. It’s so honest. The booth, right? They say it’s so honest. It’s so honest. You can name 10 places, so can I. But you hear so much about the honesty.
Let’s do this. Let’s not worry about it. Get out and vote by the millions, and we won’t have to worry about what’s taking place behind the scenes.
Remember this, 1.8 million people that are dead are registered to vote.
You know they talk about all, that’s a threat to democracy what I’m saying. 1.8 million people.
2.75 million people are registered to vote in two states. So they vote here. They go to another state, they vote there.
There’s so many things going on, folks.
And Obama the other day, on television, talked about the bedrock of our foundation, and this is going to be.
But the other day, eight years ago, when he was running for the first time, he essentially was talking about how corrupt the election system is in Chicago.
I saw it it. I said, wait a second, he’s telling us how Trump shouldn’t be saying these things. And this guy, eight years ago, is on television, last night, talking about how corrupt it is in Chicago, and saying, I’m lucky I’m from Chicago. In other words, it’s corrupt. It’s corrupt. He’s lucky he’s the beneficiary of the corruptness.
Folks, get out and vote by the millions so they can’t do anything. We can’t let them take it away.
The Clinton crime spree ends on Nov. 8th. It’s going to end on Nov. 8th.
And when we close the chapter on the Clintons, we open a bright new chapter focused on the American people.
So we want to now be a little uplifting, because you know what? We have such tremendous potential. Tremendous potential in our country.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability in our government.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words, we are about to say. Get ready.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. We’re going to drain the swamp.
And speaking of draining the swamp, Donna Brazile did it again, WikiLeaks today. She gave the questions to a debate to Hillary Clinton, and that was from a couple of weeks ago. Happened again, but this time far worse. She gave the questions to a debate to Hillary Clinton. Now, they’re all blaming Donna Brazile, and frankly, I think she just got fired from the network. She should be fired from the DNC.
By the way, could you imagine if I did that?
Bobby, what would happen to me if I did that?
Electric chair, I think. The electric chair. If I did that, can you imagine?
So Donna Brazile got fired from the network. But here’s the real problem. Uh oh.

I want to tell you that there will be no president that has ever been closer or who has ever had greater respect for our military people than Donald Trump will have.
There’s nothing more important in today’s world than our military – Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, whatever – gets everything it needs to have, and this man will ensure that that is done. I guarantee you that.
Now, you’ve listened to him. You’ve heard him talk. He has a couple more things to say. I’m running out of things, but I’m going to tell you one thing. In a Donald Trump administration, there will be no bullshit. Thank you very much.
Thank you. What a great place to be. Thank you, Bobby.
And you know, we also have the endorsement of a great, great guy, Jack Nicklaus. Jack Nicklaus, you talk about winners. Jack is such a winner. Bobby is such a winner.
We have so many endorsements. We have so many endorsements from such great, great winners. We love Jack.
At the core of our contract is my plan to bring back your jobs.
Michigan has lost more than 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA – a deal strongly supported by Hillary Clinton.
Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000, and believe me, it’s going down and going down fast.
Our country has lost, listen to this, 70,000 factories. 70,000, Bobby. Do you hear that? 70,000. I thought it was 700. I thought it was 7,000.
70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization. Another Bill. That was another Bill and Hillary disaster.
We get nothing. He said what do we get? We get nothing. We get losses and unemployment.
We have nearly $800 billion in annual trade deficits with the world. $800 billion.
We do all this trade. We have a trade deficit of $800 billion.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. And the people of Michigan, perhaps, almost more than any other place know that.
Our trade deficit with China grew by almost 40% during Hillary’s tenure as Secretary of State. It’s massive.
Her trade deal with South Korea, you know all about that one, she was pushing it so hard. Instead of making 100,000, it killed 100,000 American jobs.
So when you look around Michigan, and you see the rusted out factories, the empty buildings and the long unemployment lines. Remember, Hillary Clinton did much of this to you. She wasn’t there.
And during the debates, you watched the debates, did I win the debates, by the way? Oh, the debates. I love those debates.
But, you know, I watch when she’d say, “I’m going to do this. I’m going to do that.” And I’d say, Hillary, you’ve been there for 30 years, why didn’t you do it? She’d say, “I’m going to change the tax code so that Donald Trump can’t do that.” Well, what she doesn’t say is that all of her donors are doing the same thing.
But I said to her, I don’t mind if you do that. Then change the code, why don’t you do it? Nothing gets done. The reason she’ll never do it is because her donors don’t want it done, okay?

And I’ll have over $100 million in my campaign, which means, $100 million of people that aren’t giving me money .
I will tell you this. On the Internet, people $61 average. $61. We’re setting records. Setting records. It’s amazing.
Hillary got rich selling your jobs to the same special interests who pushed the jobs out of America are the people who have given countless millions to her. She’s not going to change.
Hillary gets rich making America poor. Look at the devastation here.
Delphi laid off 3,627 workers. You know that. And you know where they moved. Different places. Most of those jobs went to Mexico. And by the way Mexico is doing very well. If she’s working for Mexico then I think she’s doing a great job.
We’re going to fight for the workers at Delphi. Anyone hear from Delphi? Delphi? A few. They don’t want to raise your hands. This guy here had his hand partially up but he was like, “Nah no”. In other words, don’t worry you’ll be proud of it real soon. They got a raw deal and they deserve better.
GM laid off 314 workers at the Lake Orion Assembly plant in 2013 because of the imports from the South Korean trade deals that were pushed by Hillary. That was her baby.
Lear Corporation laid off many people in Rochester Hills and move their jobs to South Korea.
FTE Automotive laid off 166 people in Auburn Hills – a place I know well. Their jobs went to Mexico.
Chrysler laid off 5,300 workers. Those jobs went to Mexico, China, and India and numerous other countries.
Ford laid off 2,155 workers. Their small car division is out. They’re gone. They’ve moved to Mexico.
Now, Ford is moving a lot of different production facilities to a lot of different areas. But when you look at what’s going on in our country, we want them here.
A Trump administration will stop the stop the flight of American jobs.
If Ford or another company announces they want to move their jobs over to Mexico or to another country, then I will pick up the phone, and if I have to I’ll do it personally even though some people will say it’s unpresidential. Do I care? “It’s not presidential, sir.”
But I have some of those greatest business leaders – Carl Icahn. We have some of the greatest business people in the world endorsing me. They will do unbelievably well, believe me.
And we will use our great business people. We have the greatest negotiators in the world. We don’t use them. We use political hacks to make trade deals.
Our trade with Mexico – NAFTA – is a defective deal. It was defective almost from the beginning because we have different tax systems.
They’re on a VAT system; we’re on our own system. Well, there’s a 17% – almost 17% difference. So every deal we make, we are behind 17% before we even start.
People have known this for years and years and years, and it’s a defective agreement. Nobody’s ever changed it. Believe me. It’s going to get changed very quickly. Okay?
I will call the executives, and I will tell them that if they want to do that where they’re taking their factories and they’re taking their everything and they’re moving it, and if they think they’re going to sell their cars or their air conditioning units back into the country, we will charge them a 35% tax when they try to ship their products back across what will end up being an extremely strong border.
And you know what? Just the fact that we’re going to do that or we will do that, they’ll never move. They’re going to stay in Michigan. Nobody ever told them that.
If somebody went to them and said ” Look, please stay, please stay”, you know, we’ll do this and that, then they say “No, we’re going to be leaving. We’re going to Mexico.” Then you say, “All right. Here’s the story. No more Mr. Nice Guy.”
You make your cars. You make your air conditioning – Indianapolis great place. 1,400 people have been laid off violently. I mean, people who worked there for 30 years. They laid them off.
So all I say is this, “You want to build your plant in Mexico? Have a great time. But if you think you’re going to ship your products across the border, which will be a very strong border by the way, you think you’re going to ship your stuff back across the border for no tax, no nothing so we end up with unemployment and we end up with empty plants and factories, and you end up with money, the jobs, and the plants. You can forget it.”
And you know what would happen if you said that right up front, nobody’s leaving, folks. You stop it right away.
The politicians don’t want to say that because most of them are too stupid to even understand it.

But the ones that aren’t are taken care of by the special interests and their donors. Because they want those companies to move because it’s to their benefit.
It used to be that cars were made in Flint, and you couldn’t drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in Mexico and you can drink the water in Flint. Not good.
But we’re going to turn it all around. And we’re going to rebuild Flint.
I was to Flint recently, and I’ll tell you what. It’s gone down a long way.
And we’re going to help you rebuild Detroit.
And Mr. Gilbert has done a great job, by the way. Friend of mine. Done a great job.
And we’re going to rebuild Michigan. And we’re going to keep your jobs and lots of other things.
So I’d like to share a special message with the African-American community in Michigan, which has been so terribly harmed by the policies of the Clintons and a lot of the Democratic politicians.
Look at the city of Detroit. Take a look.
It used to be the manufacturing hub of the world. Now nearly half of Detroit resident don’t work. It has the second highest violent crime rate in the United States. And the children are trapped in failing, horrible government schools.
Yet as the people of Detroit suffer, Hillary wants to spend trillions of dollars on government benefits for illegal immigrants and refugees pouring into our country.
I’ve outlined a plan for urban renewal, which I believe so strongly in. It’s called a New Deal for Black America.
That deal includes a plan to use the money we will save by securing our border and curbing refugee admissions to invest in communities, like Flint and Detroit.
We’re going to bring in big number of jobs. Tremendous incentives.
It includes a pledge of school choice for African-American children.
My plan also includes a promise to cancel billions and billions of dollars in climate change spending for the United Nations.It’s insane. A number that Hillary wants to actually increase. And instead use that money to provide for American infrastructure, including clean air and clean water.
You saw this recently.
We are going to spend billions and billions and billions of dollars for a plan where we don’t even know where the money is going.
And in the meantime, our companies won’t even be able to compete because they’re being regulated and restricted. They’re not going to be able to compete.
And I’m an environmentalist. I will tell you. I’ve received many environmental awards.
But I want clean air. I want crystal clean water. And I want safety.
And we don’t have to give hundreds of billions of dollars away to people that are probably laughing at us. They’re not going to do it if you know where the money is going. Not going to happen.
My plan also includes a pledge to reduce violent crime. Every child in this nation has the right to grow up in safety and in peace.
And my plan includes a pledge to restore manufacturing in the United States. We’re going to start making things again.
Hillary and the Democratic Party have run the inner cities for years and only produced more poverty, more crime, worse education.
The time has come for real change.
I’m asking you for the honor of your vote so together we can turn decades of political failure into generations of lasting access for your children and your grandchildren.
Hillary, on the other hand, wants to destroy what’s left of manufacturing in Michigan with the Trans-Pacific Partnership. By the way, a disaster. It’s a disaster.
A Trump administration will stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership. And by the way, we’re going to have tremendous trade deals.
We are not going to have a deal that’s 6,000 pages long, that ties in all of these countries together. You have to see a bar chart, lines all of the place.
If someone does something wrong that you can’t do, we’re going to have single lines going to single different countries.
And if they don’t do good by us, we send them what’s called a letter of termination. 30 days. And during that 30 days, they’ll call and we’ll probably make a new deal that will be even better. [inaudible]
If you have to see this crazy Trans-Pacific Partnership, and they don’t take care of monetary manipulation, which is the single biggest weapon that foreign countries use to kill us. Especially China, they’re grand masters.
We will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal. We’ll make a much better deal.
We are going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class.
We will unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal.
We’re going to put our miners back to work.
The Obama-Clinton war on coal is going to cost this state 50,000 jobs at least.
And you have a war on your steel workers too, folks. Your steelworkers are suffering.
We will also work to restore and protect the Great Lakes.
We are going to become – we are going to become a rich nation again.
But to be a rich nation we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees pouring into this country. Hillary’s immigration plans means generation of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism spreading into our schools, our communities, and every other place right here in Michigan and all throughout the United States.
When we win, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program, and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. We have no choice.
And we’ll build safe havens for them in Syria. We’re going to get the money from the Gulf States. They have plenty of money. They don’t do their share. We’ll get the money from the Gulf States. We’ll lead the effort because we all have heart. We see what’s happening.
But we can’t do this. We don’t want to be the great Trojan horse of the future. It’s not going to happen to us, folks. You see what’s happening in Germany? You see what’s happening in Paris?
People don’t even go to Paris anymore. My friend used to go to Paris. “Oh, Donald, I love Paris. It’s just so beautiful.” For years.
I said to him the other day, “How is Paris?” He said, “We don’t go there. Are you crazy? No.”
We’re not going to be the stupid people anymore, folks. We’re going to be the smart people.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And, yes, we will build a wall and you know that.
We received — so important.You have to have it.
I don’t know if you know, Hillary wanted a wall. Did you know that? And you know why they didn’t build a big fence, wall? You know why they didn’t build it? They couldn’t get their environmental impact statements.
Can you believe it?
The United States of America wants to put up a wall in ’06, 2006. Hillary was in favor of it. They couldn’t get approval to build the wall. Can you believe this?
And then you see China in the middle of the South China Sea building a massive fortress.
…

And you know what happened? They said Sunday evening, “Let’s do it.” You know when work started? Monday morning.
I jokingly said to a friend of mine in China, “How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statement approved?” He looked at me and go, “You’re kidding, aren’t you?” I said, “Yeah, I’m kidding.”
So they’re building it. They’re ripping it up with the biggest excavators you’ve ever seen. And they’re ripping it up and they’re building it. They’re not supposed to be doing it by the way. The only reason they’re doing it is because they have no respect for our president, who’s out campaigning all the time.
This guy ought to bring more time in bringing jobs back to Michigan and less time and less time fighting for somebody who’s under criminal investigation, which he shouldn’t be doing.
We’ve received the first-ever endorsement from our I.C.E. and border patrol officers.
16,500 border patrol officers. The first time they’ve ever done it because they know we know what we’re doing.
They tell us the border crisis is the worst it’s ever been. It’s a national emergency.
They also warn that America’s plan under Hillary Clinton is the most radical proposal — quote, radical proposal in U.S. history.
When I become president, we will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens. We have people in this country that are serious, serious criminals.
And we will put America first.
You know, we have some very, very rough people, and we wanted to deport the people while she was Secretary of State. And they bring these people back to their countries and the countries very intelligently, they said, “No, we don’t want a murderer. We don’t want a drug dealer. We don’t want the head of a gang in Los Angeles. We don’t want them.” They call up the Secretary of State’s office. They said, “Oh, that’s okay. Bring them back.”
So we release them right into our country. How stupid are we?
I promise you — it’s well-known — I promise you, whether it’s four years or eight years, we’ll figure that out. There won’t be one time — there won’t be one time when any of these thugs come back into our country. Not one time.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.
We need a new foreign policy that puts America first, and we’re going to have it very, very quickly.
Hillary led us to disaster in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya.
Then after Benghazi, she looked the families of the fallen in the eye and lied. She blamed their deaths on a video, which was a lie.
Remember when she back to Bosnia? Under fire, remember? Oh, it was under fire, it was so dangerous. Seriously. Under fire. Remember? But they had a video clip, she landed and these beautiful little girls were handing flowers. She came under fire – turned out not to be true. She apologized. She apologized.
But you have to ask her, the media — the most dishonest people, they have to ask her — they have to ask her — they have to ask her.
They have to ask her. So when Donna Brazile, who I told you just got fired, when Donna Brazile gave her the questions to the debate — ask this question to her, why didn’t she report it? She accepted those questions. She accepted those questions to the debate. She had the questions to the debate.
Forget about Donna — I don’t care about Donna Brazile.
Why didn’t Hillary Clinton report that she was given essentially unethically, probably illegally, why didn’t she report that she had the questions?
Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, and now it’s worse than it’s ever been before.
Had Obama and others gone to the beach, Obama could have gone to the golf course, we would have been in much better shape.
We shouldn’t have gone into the war, and she thinks I’m a hawk. Oh, Donald Trump. We shouldn’t have gone in.
And we certainly shouldn’t have gone out the way we got out because she created a vacuum ISIS formed.

Now, she says, “I’m going to get rid of – “ She’s going to get rid of ISIS. She has zero chance.
ISIS is dreaming about her becoming president.
You know, she’s going to fix it. There was no ISIS when she was Secretary of State. She
and Obama created it through the vacuum they created by stupidly the way they got out.
Even Mosul. We’re trying to retake Mosul for a second time because wee essentially gave it up. So now we’re going in.
Did we give them enough advanced notice? Four months is enough time. Right?
General, did we give Mosul enough advanced notice? I think so. Four months.
And I keep saying, whatever happened to the element of surprise? The element of surprise.
Imagine if some of the money had been spent, $6 trillion in the Middle East, on building new schools and roads and bridges right here in Michigan.
Now Hillary, trapped in her Washington bubble, that’s blind to the lessons, wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia that could drag us into a World War III.
Okay, folks. She – I’ll tell you what. She will get us into World War III. She will get us into World war I. I will tell you that. She’s incompetent. She will get us into World War III.
The arrogant political class never learns. They keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again. They keep telling the same lies. They keep producing the same failed results.
How can Hillary manage this country when she can’t even manage her emails?
It’s just one disaster after another, one scandal after another, one betrayal after another.
To all Americans I say it is now time for new leadership. All of us.

And just in finishing up, in finishing up, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary is increasing your taxes.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.
We’re going to cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
We will rebuild our military.
And we are going to take great care of our fantastic veterans. It’s about time. 22 veterans a day commit suicide. Can you believe that number? 22 veterans a day are committing suicide. They wait in line for seven, eight, nine days when a simple prescription or a simple procedure could solve their problem. 22 veterans. These are our greatest people, committing suicide a day.
It’s not going to be that way anymore. We’re going to take care of our veterans. And I have tremendous veteran support.
We are going to totally support the men and women of law enforcement.
We will save the Second Amendment, which is under total siege.
And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can’t change, and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C.
I am asking you to dream big, dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of our country.
I’m tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean another decade or many decades away.
America is tired of incompetence. America is tired of waiting.
The moment is now. All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians

And start believing in each other. We have to. Start believing in each other. And start believing in the greatness of our country.
There is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach. Don’t let anybody tell you it can’t be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics, not the critics.
Hillary has been there for 30 years and she’s accomplished nothing. She’s just made things worse.
She’s the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We’re the movement of the future.
Some of the greatest political pundits of today, Bill O’Reilly, many others said this is the single greatest political phenomena of their lifetime. It is.
And folks, we don’t want to throw it away. That’s why we have to get out and vote Nov. 8th.
Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life.
We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters of which there are so many.
We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power, should rule the day.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors, not the special interests.
We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better day and a better future.
With your vote, we are just eight days away from the change you’ve been waiting for for your entire life.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you everybody. God bless you. Get out and vote, Michigan. Get out and vote, Nov. 8th. Thank you everybody. God bless you.

Thank you very much.
This is a record crowd. I want to thank the great owner of this hotel and his incredible wife. She’s an incredible woman. Sheldon Adelson.
And really incredible people and they’ve been so supportive and we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much.
And Phil Ruffin, one of our great supporters, is here tonight. Phil. We love Phil.
And we’re doing great in the polls. We’re winning many national polls. And we’re ahead in many states, including your great state and North Carolina, and Ohio, and Florida, and Iowa and so many others.
And just so you know these polls, came out yesterday and today. This was before the blow-up on Friday. These polls are from before the blow-up so we’ll see.
We’re on the cusp of really incredible, historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to our families, communities, and citizens.
In nine days we are going to win the state of Nevada. Nevada. The state of Nevada, right?
You know, I don’t know if you know but everybody in New York says it the other way. And I did that once and I never will do it again, believe me.
But we’re going to win the state of Nevada, and we’re going to win back the White House.
Early voting is underway so make sure you get to the polls.
Who’s voting? That’s like 50%. If anybody wants to leave right now, go ahead. I won’t be insulted. There’s plenty of people outside that want to take your place, okay?
No, make sure you vote because otherwise this incredible movement that we’ve created together, we won’t get there, and that will be very, very bad for all of us. It will be very bad for the country.
A Trump administration will immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that the citizens of Nevada are going to experience a massive, massive – frankly I don’t even want to tell you what the number is, I won’t because you’ll walk out of here depressed – double-digit hike in their Obamacare premiums for the year.
Ten of Nevada’s 16 counties will have only Obamacare, and, think of it, you’re going to have one exchange insurer to choose from. They are in a very good position to negotiate with you, aren’t they?
Not with Trump. We’re going to get rid of it, and we’re going to have health care that is so good and so much less expensive.
Because Obamacare, forgetting about the cost which is ridiculous, it’s no good. It doesn’t work. And your deductibles are so high, you’re never going to be able to use it, so.
Obamacare is a catastrophe for your state. In Minnesota, where the premium increase, will be close to 60%, the Democratic governor has just said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable.
Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. In fact, much more expensive.
My contract with the American voter outlines a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. And I’m asking for your vote so we can save health care for every family in your state and in this country.
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington. You’ve been seeing a little a corruption. Right? You’ve been seeing. System is rigged. It’s rigged. A little corruption you’ve been watching.
As you’ve heard, it was just announced on Friday that the FBI is reopening their investigation into the criminal and illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton.

Hillary has nobody but herself to blame for her mounting legal problems.
Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional, and purposeful.
Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure.
She set up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk and put the safety and security of your children at risk.
To cover up her crimes, she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. After, after, after, after she gets a subpoena and she deletes and bleaches.
And nobody’s even ever heard of bleaching. Did anybody ever hear of bleaching? You know why? It’s such an expensive process but it makes them go away.
But I have a feeling they’ve just found a lot of them, don’t you think?
Huma. They just found a lot of them.
We never thought we were going to say thank you to Anthony Weiner.
She made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. She lied to the Congress under oath and she lied to the FBI many times. And then two boxes of email evidence has just recently went mysteriously missing.
Then you have the WikiLeaks revelation, which has exposed criminal corruption at the highest levels of our government.
Hillary put the office of Secretary of State up for sale, and if she ever did get the chance, which we’re not going to let her have, she’d put the Oval Office up for sale also. You have no doubt about that.
Yet, now it’s reported that the Department of Justice is fighting the FBI. That’s because the Department of Justice is trying so hard to protect Hillary Clinton.
They didn’t try to protect our generals. They didn’t try to protect a lot of people.
How can the attorney and general be involved in this case or tell the FBI what to do,  when the attorney general violated sanctity of law by secretly meeting with Bill Clinton, the husband of the possible target of this investigation and a possible target himself, in an airplane on a tarmac in Arizona?
Remember? He was going to play golf, remember? But he just be happen to be at the airport hanging around, and the Attorney General’s plane drove by. Right?
…Let’s say hello. Let’s say hello.
It was just a chance meeting, they said.
Well, the meeting lasted 39 minutes and they supposedly talked about golf and grandchildren.
So I give two minutes to golf and I give five minutes to grandchildren.
But what they probably really talked about was the Attorney General’s reappointment should Hillary Clinton become president, which I don’t think is going to happen.
Because of this highly inappropriate meeting at best, the Attorney General took herself essentially out of the case and put Director Comey in charge of making decisions. You saw that. Decision-making process.
So why is she now allowed to fight so hard to get someone who is so obviously guilty on so many different fronts off the hook?
In fact, it was publicly reported that sources close to Hilary Clinton said, and I think she had actually said to the papers that she was thinking of reappointing Attorney General Lynch.

She was thinking. I mean, she said it. It was a statement she made.
And effectively, I guess you’d call that a bribe, wouldn’t you? Wouldn’t that be called a bribe?
And effectively, I guess you’d call that a bribe, wouldn’t you? Wouldn’t that be called a bribe? How could she say they’re going to make a decision on her and you’re talking about you’re going to reappoint? She said it publicly, I believe.
When I heard it, I found it a little bit hard to believe that she’d say that.
This is what we mean when we say the system is rigged. It’s rigged.
What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws and that we are all equal under those laws.
Hillary’s corruption shreds the principles on which our nation was founded.
When the powerful can get away with anything because they have the money and the connections to rig the system, then the people lose hope and confidence in the future of their country.
Corruption is corrosive to the soul of a democracy, and it must be stopped and we’re going to stop it.
Because we have one ultimate check on Hillary’s corruption, and that is the power of the vote. The power of the vote.
The only way to beat the corruption is to show up and vote by the tens of millions, including millions of people voting for the first time in their lives.
There was a great guy on television that I have to tell you about. His name was Sid Miller [sp] from Texas. Oh, they know Sid Miller? We create yet another star.
But he was on this morning. He was on Fox and a lot of you saw him. And he said, “You know, these New Yorkers have it all wrong. You guys have it all wrong.” He’s from Texas wearing a big white hat, smart guy. He said, “You know, in Texas I kept reading where we’re even, and I said, ‘Wow, I don’t think so because I see the enthusiasm’ but the voting started.” He said, “I’ve got to tell you we have more people voting now than we’ve ever had – ever – in an election. They’re all coming from all over. They’re people we’ve never seen before, they’ve never voted before, or they haven’t voted for 20 years and they’re all voting for Trump.”
And when they say, and he said, “And when I listen to these guys talking,” and I know every one of them because these are the most honest…I tell you what, these are the most dishonest human beings right back there.
For instance, when we tell them to turn the cameras to show this incredible record crowd, record for this ballroom – this is the record for this ballroom. Sheldon told me that himself. Record. They don’t show it. You’re wasting your time. They don’t show it because they’re dishonest. Because they don’t want to show the crowds that we get the biggest ever in this history of this country. There’s never been a movement like this, and they don’t want to show it.
And we’re going to go into it in a couple of seconds but they are very dishonest.
The media is very, very dishonest. Show the crowd.
Why don’t you show the crowd? Turn the cameras.
They’ll get up, a couple of them get up there and say, Donald Trump spoke today before a small crowd. It’s disgusting.
The other day, a man got up. We had 17,000 people. He said Donald Trump spoke in front of a few thousand people. Well, a few to me means three. I don’t’ know that’s the way I grew up. When I hear a few thousand people, that sort of means to me like three.
Anyway, very, very dishonest people.
But Sid Miller said, “We’ve never had anything like this. It’s 50% higher than it has ever been before in Texas.”
And he said we’re going to win. And he wasn’t for me. He said, “Trump is going to win by massive numbers, bigger than anyone has ever seen.”
And he said, “So I don’t know what you people are talking about on television where they’re saying the vote in Texas is going to very close.”
He said, “I don’t know what you people are talking about. You must be talking about a different Texas than the one I’m from.”
So we love the people in Texas, and I know what’s going on.
And you know what else? The same thing is happening in Florida. The same thing is happening in North Carolina.
It’s happening all over because people are sick and tired of stupidity and deals and –
Look at Iran. Look at the Iran deal. They’re sick and tired of the Iran deal.

They don’t want to be giving Iran $1.7 billion in cash. It’d be from here up to the ceiling.
They don’t want to – remember three weeks ago, they had 800 people that they were getting to deport. Right? You saw this, right? They had them bad. They were tough. Anybody that gets deported from this country, believe me, they have to be tough.
So they have 800. Little mistake. Instead of deporting them, they all became United States citizens.
And I’ll tell you that’s not the worst of it. The worst of it – it wasn’t 800 people, it was 1,800 people. Okay?
So congratulations you have some wonderful new citizens of this country.
And they want to say that’s okay, fix the problem, that’s okay, fix it. They said that wouldn’t be constitutional. Give me a break.
All right, so we’re stuck.
$1.7 billion in cash to Iran. Can you believe? Can you imagine their eyes when they saw that money being brought in by truck? Can you imagine?
Did you ever see what a million dollars looks like in cash? It’s a lot of…that’s a lot of money.
$1.7 billion in cash. And then what do they do? They grab our sailors, our 10 sailors, destroy their lives, humiliate those people. Instead of saying, “Hey listen, you’re in our waters, you’ve got to get over a little bit.” They humiliated the sailors. They humiliated our country, and they would’ve kept them except their $150 billion payment started the next day. Okay? Stupid they’re not.
And people are tired of it. We’re tired. We’re sick and tired of it.
And don’t forget I was on the other side for a long time, folks. I understand that side very well.
And it’s a good life but I love this country. I love the people of this country, and we’re going to change it. We’re going to change. We’re going to do it right.
So go out and vote with all your heart and soul, and we’re going to make America great again, that I can tell you. Okay?
Restoring honesty to our government and the rule of law to our society will be one of my truly highest priorities.
Now we have a lot. We have to rebuild our military. We have to create borders. We have to do so much. But that’s going to be right up there.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words that we all, not me, we have to say.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
You know, I told people the other day drain the swamp. I said I don’t really like that expression. This was two weeks ago. I said I don’t love that expression. So hokey. I thought it was hokey.
I said you know and all of the sudden, I said I hate to use this, it’s sort of like it doesn’t work right.
And I said it two weeks ago to a big crowd, and I said it and the place went crazy.
Then I said it a second time, and the place went even crazier.
And then the third time, like you, they started saying it before I said it.
And all of the sudden, I decided I love that expression. It’s a great expression. Crazy, right? Drain the swamp.
Thank you.
You know a man who loved Las Vegas was Frank Sinatra. And he had his…we like Frank Sinatra, right?
Frank Sinatra, he was great, and when he originally heard and sang for the first time “My Way”. How do we like “My Way”, yes? But he didn’t like it.

But then he sang it a couple of times. And then it went to number one and all of the sudden he loved it. Okay? So he loved it.
That’s the way it works. You never know.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Right?
Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. 43% percent of African-American school-aged children are living in poverty. 34% of Hispanic school-aged children live in poverty.
This is unacceptable in our country. It’s unacceptable in America.
As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization.
We will break decades of failure and prove that real change is possible if we simply cut our ties with the failed politicians and politics of the past.
America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA and Hillary loved it.
America, and this is something that every time I say it I always because it sounds crazy. I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 factories or 7,000 maybe. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed deal.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world.
What’s happened to our jobs is the greatest jobs theft – all because our politicians are either incompetent or they’ve gotten so much campaign contributions or other things, or other things. And the special interest, you know special interest like what’s happening, but we’re getting wiped out.
You go to Michigan. You go to…I mean you go to New England. You look at areas around here. You look at what’s happened. It’s a one lane highway into Mexico, no way out.
They get the jobs. They get the money. They get the plants.
I tell the story of my friend, he builds plants. He’s the biggest in the world. He builds plants. That’s what he does. That’s what he wants to do. That’s all he wants to do. If you said build an apartment, he wouldn’t know how to go about it. Okay? All he does…he builds the biggest in the world.
I said, “How is business?” He said “Unbelievable. It’s unbelievable.” “Where? In the United States?” “No, not at all. In Mexico. It’s the seventh wonder of the world.”
So we’ve got to have…we’ve got to change things folks.
A Trump administration will stop the horrible, horrible, horrible Trans-Pacific Partnership. We will renegotiate NAFTA. And we are going to stand up to China’s currency manipulation.
I have great relationships with China but their currency manipulation, what they do to our country, is unbelievable.
We have a trade balance – think of this we have a deficit, trade deficit, with China, almost $500 billion a year. We owe China $1.5 trillion.
That’s a good act. They come in. They take our jobs. They make our product. They make a fortune. And we owe them $1.5 trillion. It’s a good act.
But we’ll get it solved.
I have great relations with China. I’ve made a lot of money with China. The biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan and it’s from China. The biggest bank in the world by far, not even close. The condos – I own the Bank of America building with a great partner in San Francisco, got it through China, through a certain very complicated route.
We’re going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We’re going to cut taxes for middle class family by hundreds of billions of dollars a year.
And my infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like the proposed Interstate 11 here in your state.
We will become a rich nation again. We will become a rich country.
And we have to be a rich country in order to do what we have to do.
A woman came up to me recently, and she said, “Mr. Trump, it sounds so crass when you say we’re going to become a rich nation.”

I said, “But we have not choice.”
We need our Social Security. We need our Medicare. We have to rebuild our military. We need all of this stuff! We need all of this stuff.
Yeah, make sure that she’s okay.
Some of these people have been here for 8 hours. That’s okay. You take your time. Take your time. Take your time.
Maybe we can open that gate up? If we have to, we should. Yay!! Look at her! Are you okay?
She’s tougher than all of us folks! She’s been here for 8 hours.
If you need, you’ll come right through here. Ahh, we have strong people.
Hey, did see where the Democratic National Committee – did you see this? They were paying. You know at these rallies where we use to have these fights? And I didn’t understand it. I’d say, “Who’s fighting?”
We’re like, there’s so much love in these rooms.
By the way, there is no better place to be than a Trump rally. Right?
So, so I said, “What’s going on?”
And we had one in Chicago, where the police – and we love our police by the way – where the police, a couple of them had gashes in their heads. I said, “What’s going on? This doesn’t make sense.”
So it came out through WikiLeaks that we had thugs. Thugs who should be put in jail by the way. They attacked policemen in addition to our people. But they were paying thugs.
Hillary Clinton was paying thugs $1,500 each plus an iPhone. And they were paying these thugs to go in and disturb our rallies and get into fights.
And that was on a tape made by a very talented young man, I will tell you that. Very talented guy. And they got him on a tape bragging about how they did it.
And everybody blamed me right? And they blamed us. That they rallies are violent.
Let me tell you, it’s a disgrace. It’s a disgrace. It is such a disgrace.
And lots of other things happen, where they take care of people and then bad things, but we don’t fall for it.
To be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. We’ll support local police and federal law enforcement in an effort to aggressively reduce surging crime.
So far this year in Las Vegas, homicides have increased 27% over last year.
And by the way – people don’t know this because this dishonest media will never say it – murder rates are up. Right now, murder is up 45.
Think of it, think of it, you know what it is? In 45 years, in 45 years, right now, the rates are the highest they have been. Murder rates, highest they’ve been in 45 years.
And they don’t want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it.
You know what you do? Let her out right here! Open the gate, let her out right here. So much easier. Fellas? Fellas? Open the gate. Use your heads! Let her our right here.
Thank you, darling, thank you! If you feel better come back. Will we take her back? Yes! We love her. Thank you.
Latinos for Trump! I love it! Give me that stuff!! I love this stuff! From Mexico! Say hello.

…She’s better than me. I never did it that well, boy. That’s so great.
We are going to do so well with the Latinos.
We are going to do so well because we want security. We want safety.
We don’t want people…you have so many people…they’re living here legally. They have a job. They don’t want their jobs taken away. I mean, it’s…but I appreciate that. That was really nice.
We will also keep our nation safe.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
We are going to keep our nation safe from a thing called terrorism.
Hillary Clinton wants to increase Syrian refugees pouring into our country by 550%. That’s over Obama’s numbers. That’s over the thousands and thousands that are already coming in through Obama.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. Have no choice.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, believe me.
But we’re also going to work to build safe havens over there, and we’re going to get the Gulf States to pay for it. We don’t have to pay for it; they have plenty of money. We’re going to get the Gulf States to pay for it, and they will pay for it.
And we have to help the people but we just can’t do this anymore, folks. We have problems. We don’t need to be the great Trojan horse, a modern day version, the great Trojan horse. It’s not going to be us.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall.
Sheldon, you have a great, great hotel but I tell you we could’ve made this ballroom a little bit larger maybe, could’ve made it larger. This is some great space.
And we also have by the way the legendary Phil Ruffin of Las Vegas. Where is Phil? Where is he? All right, get him over here. He employs thousands of people and he’s a great guy.
Hillary has pledged open borders and supports sanctuary cities.
Countless Americans are killed by illegal immigrants because our government refuses to do its job.
Right here in your state, 20-year-old Bryan Coursey was shot and paralyzed by an illegal immigrant. He fought for his life in the hospital for 17 days. Ultimately he died. Bryan was a basketball star loved by everybody with dreams of becoming a firefighter right here.
On Mother’s Day in 2009, Carson City, born beautiful, beautiful person, just an incredible person, Rene Angulo, was out driving, looking for a job when he was shot in the head and murdered by a previously-deported illegal immigrant gang member. Everybody said we must get him out of our country. We must incarcerate him. We must do something. This guy was brutal. Rene was pulled from his vehicle and left to die on the side of a road.

A good Samaritan who thought there had been a car accident stopped to help and he was also shot.
The illegal immigrant killer had a previous conviction as an accessory to murder in Carson City, and he had a record as long as your arm. But the Obama administration didn’t want to put him out.
Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I’ve gotten to know during this campaign, was murdered at the age of 17. Josh, a student at a high school and a good student, was tortured, strangled, and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant and then his body was set on fire.
And there are so many of these stories.
When I become president this crime wave will end, and it will end very, very quickly.
We will end illegal immigration. We will deport all criminal illegal immigrants. You have a lot of people that are walking around.
And the great thing – our local police they know who they are. They know them better than they know their own family. And we will get them out.
Now when Hillary brought them out, they’d bring them back to their country and the country very intelligently wouldn’t take them. Right? And so, we would bring them back and we’d release them into our society. She would always let them come back. She didn’t want to make waves.
That will never, ever happen once, not once, with me.
We will also, it’s so important…and by the way the border patrol agents of this country and I.C.E., both of them, they’ve never endorsed a candidate for president before. Both groups, every one of them, both groups endorsed Donald Trump for that reason.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly-depleted military. We have the greatest people in the world but we need help.
We have the endorsements of over 200 admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.
And I want to thank General Flynn for being here. Great guy, great man.
Our Air Force is the smallest and oldest in its history and my plan calls for building new fighter jets.
Oh, you know what this is. Nellis, Nellis Air Force Base. You’re going to have nice new planes. Nellis Air Force Base.
Did you ever see where our fighter jets are so old that we can’t get parts anymore for them? These are planes in service that are so old we can’t get parts.
That’s going to change.
The enemy has better planes than us and they buy them from us or they take them.
We also need a new foreign policy that puts America first again. America first.
Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, and now it’s in worse shape.
I mean think of it, all of that money, all of those lives, and it’s in far worse shape than it ever has been by a factor of 10.
They’ve dragged us into foreign wars. They’ve made us less safe. And these are wars that they never win.
We don’t win. We don’t win at anything. We don’t win at trade. We don’t win at wars.
They’ve left our borders wide open at home, and they’ve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
To all Americans, I say it is now time for real leadership. We’re going to have real leadership.
So sad, so sad.
Thank you. Thank you.
In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
And by the way, Hillary Clinton, just in case you don’t know it, you do know, she wants to raise your taxes substantially.

We are lowering your taxes. She wants to raise your taxes substantially.
We’re going to rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans. Our veterans are going to be taken proper care of for once and for all.
We’ll reduce surging crime and support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
We’re going to provide school choice – very important – and put an end to Common Core so we can bring our education local.
We will save the Second Amendment, which is under siege. The NRA endorsed Trump. The NRA endorsed us.
And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day but they really mean defer their dreams to another decade. You know that and I know that and they know that.
Hillary has been there for 30 years and she’s accomplished nothing. She’s just made things worse.
She’s a candidate of yesterday, and we are the movement of the future.
…Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and from all walks of life.
We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters. There’s going to be a lot of them. A lot of them.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests.
We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and year for a better future for their children.
Washington D.C. wants to think small. But I am asking you to dream big again. Dream big again.
With your vote, we are just nine days from the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life. Think of it. Think of it. Nine days.
And you’re going to remember this day and you’re going to remember when you cast your vote, and you’re going to say that this was a very important day. But you’re going to say the vote you cast was the most important vote that you’ve ever cast because our country will start winning. We’re going to start winning again.
And you’re going to be proud of your country again.
And hopefully, hopefully, you’ll be proud of your president. But you’re going to be proud of your country.
Together, we’re going to make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much everybody. Get out and vote. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you.

I would like to thank my incredible running mate, Gov. Mike Pence. Thank you. And I love you too.
We have a lot of very enthused and excited people in this campaign so I really do thank all of you.
I would like to thank my incredible running mate, Mike Pence, on the tremendous job he’s done, and he’s a fantastic leader and leader on health care issues. And to have him involved is just my very great honor. Believe me.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials and dignitaries omitted]
When we win on Nov. 8th and elect a Republican Congress, we will be able to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. Have to do it.
I will ask Congress to convene a special session so we can repeal and replace, and it will be such an honor for me, for you, and for everybody in this country because Obamacare has to be replaced. And we will do it and we will do it very, very quickly. It is a catastrophe.
The president said if you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, which may go down as one of the great political lies of the century.
Even the skeptical Democrats believed him and approved the legislation. There were Democrats that were very much against it but they believed him and they approved it.
No one ever read or certainly very few people the 2,700 page bill. To this day, nobody understands it.
The Obama administration has just announced massive double-digit and triple-digit Obamacare premium hikes everywhere all throughout the country.
Here in Pennsylvania, premiums are going to increase more than 60%, and that’s nothing compared to what will happen in the future.

But it’s a meeting talking about health care and Obamacare, our plan for other things also include the bringing back of manufacturing jobs. We have to do it.
We’re going to bring back our manufacturing – we’re going to bring back our jobs that form the backbone of the American middle class and our country as a whole.
Our jobs are being stolen. Pennsylvania has lost almost 40% of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.
The city of Philadelphia has lost more than one-third of its manufacturing jobs since China joined the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA. Believe me. And we have the greatest negotiators in the world, and we will use our great negotiators.
We’ll have a fair deal but we’ll have a deal that goes in two directions, not one direction right into Mexico and these other places.
And stand up to foreign product dumping, currency manipulation, and unfair subsidy behavior.
We are going to bring manufacturing jobs – lots of jobs – back to Pennsylvania. We’re going to do it. And it won’t even be difficult.
We’re going to open modern mines and take care of our great miners. Our miners have been mistreated horrible.
We will be producing clean coal, oil, natural gas, and shale energy.
We’re also bringing back our steel workers who have been so badly hurt. So badly hurt. Whose jobs have been stolen by the dumping of steel all over this state and frankly all over this country by China and other countries.
Nobody has been treated worse than these workers. But that will change on Jan. 20th of next year. Believe me. It will change.
We’re also going to provide the children of this state with school choice. So important. That means parents can spend and take care of their children but they can send their kids to public school, to private, to charter, to magnet, to religious, or to home school. It’s going to be their right, and it’s going to be something that’s so, so good for your children and for the education of your children.
We will also totally eliminate Common Core and bring education local. We’re going to bring it local.
People do not like Common Core in this country. That I can tell you.
And our system is failing so it’s obviously not working. So we’re going to eliminate Common Core. We’re going to bring it local.
Our tax plan will provide a 35% tax cut to middle class families with two kids.
As an example, you have two kids, 35% cut, so desperately needed. Our middle class has not been properly respected. That I can tell you.

We will let parents deduct child care expenses from their taxes and create tax free child care and elder care savings accounts with matching contributions for low-income families.
We will eliminate the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.
When did we ever need it more? Greatest people on Earth in our military but it’s badly depleted.
Thank you. People love this country, don’t they? Isn’t it beautiful? Right? Beautiful. It’s a beautiful thing to watch and to see and I see it all over the country no matter where we go. And every time I say we are going to rebuild our depleted military, it’s always the same response. It’s an incredible response.
Our Navy is the smallest it’s been since World War I. Think of that. Smallest since World War I. And rebuilding it will require a national effort.
That’s why I will ask my Secretary of the Navy to review facilities like the Philadelphia Navy Yard – I know it well – with a long history of service to our Navy, proximity to vibrant private industry, and room for expansion to enlist them in the rebuilding of what will be a great fleet again.
To recruit master craftsman this build-up requires and we will establish centers of excellence at locations like the Philadelphia Navy Yard.
Vocational training is a great thing. We don’t do it anymore. We don’t do it anymore.
And I must tell you, so often and going to college right down the road, in going to college, we’d have people that were brilliant and we had other people that weren’t as brilliant in that way but were brilliant – incredible when it came to fixing a motor, when it came to fixing something that I had no idea what was happening and other great geniuses have no idea what was happening and they could take it apart blindfolded. And we don’t that anymore.
Vocational training for our country is so, so, so important.
And just in closing that and they loved it. They loved it. They didn’t want to be doing what I was doing. They loved it. They were so good at it and they loved it.
So vocational training. We’re going to start it up big league.
We will rebuild our military and we will rebuild our country.
I’m not a politician. My only special interest is you, the American people. That’s why I’ve done it.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
The guiding rule of the political class in Washington D.C. is that they are looking out only for themselves. Only for themselves. With the exception of these few people.
I feel guilty. As I’m looking, they’re staring me in the eyes. So I have to say with these exceptions.
They will say anything and do anything and cling to their power and prestige at your expense.
I’m running to change and reverse decades of failure and to work with the American people to create generations of success.

I’m running to restore honesty to our government and safety to our communities. We need safety.
And by the way, our law enforcement officials – these are great, great people.
Thank you.
And we are going to give great prosperity to our economy.
I want to go into our poorest communities and work on a national plan of revitalization. The inner cities.
And I’ve been working with so many African-American groups. These are such incredible people. We’ve been talking about it, working on it.
We’re going to bring jobs into the inner cities. We’re going to bring safety. We’re going to education – good, good schools into the inner city.
The spirit of the people in the inner cities is beyond the spirit of anybody, and it’s going to work. It’s going to work. You watch.
Americans are tired of being told to defer their dreams to another day. But politicians for the most part really mean another decade because that’s what they’re talking about.
Enough waiting. Time is now.
But to accomplish our goals, we must cut our ties with the small, bitter, petty politics of our past.
We must declare our independence from a failed establishment that has squandered $6 trillion on foreign wars in the Middle East that never end, that we never win, and that have made us far less safe.
Think of it. Think of all the money they’ve spent, all the lives that have been lost. And we’re far less safe today than we were before we started.
They’ve left our borders wide open at home and shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
It’s time for new leadership.
Thank you.
I’ve led a great life and I truly love our country. So now I want to give back to the country that’s been so good to me. That’s why I’m doing this.
All I see everywhere I travel in this nation, and I’ve been everywhere is untapped potential waiting to be realized.
The people are amazing. The people are amazing.
If we unlock the potential of this country and its incredible people, no dream is outside of our reach.
If we stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in ourselves, then anything – anything – is possible.
I’m asking you to dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by our love for each other and our love for our country.
That is how we will truly make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you very much…

Of course, in the future, if I’m president, there won’t be Obamacare, so you won’t have to worry about it.
That means parents won’t have enough money to pay their bills or get medicine for their kids.
In the great state of Arizona, a wonderful place I just left, premiums will go up even higher than 116%.
Other states are going up more than 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%.
Deductibles can go to $12,000, $13,000, $14,000, even $15,000.
In other words, your health care won’t even be usable. You’re paying all this money. You won’t even get to use it.
People all across the country are devastated. In many instances, their health care costs are more than their mortgage costs or their rent, which by the way is a first in American history.
This is particularly unfair to millennials and younger Americans generally who will be totally crushed by these massive health care costs before they even get started on their journey through life.
One-third of the counties – think of this – one-third of the counties in Pennsylvania will have only a single insurance company left, if you have that. That includes Philadelphia where I went to school.
The Associated Press found that some of the 440,000 Pennsylvania consumers who buy insurance through healthcare.gov will face some of the highest premium increases in the nation. People of Philadelphia.
Insurers are leaving. Premiums are soaring. Doctors are quitting. Companies are fleeing. And deductibles go through the roof.
Workers’ hours are being cut. Hiring is frozen. Totally frozen. And wages are being slashed.
Obamacare means higher prices, fewer choices, and lower quality.
Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive.
She wants to put the government totally in charge of health care in America.
If we don’t repeal and replace Obamacare, we will destroy American health care forever.
It’s one of the single most important reasons why we must win on Nov. 8th. We must win.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
Our replacement plan includes health savings accounts, a nationwide insurance market where you can purchase across state lines, and letting states manage Medicaid dollars. So much better.
We will create quality, reliable, affordable health care in a free market where parents can make the health care decisions that they really want to make for their families.
It will be a much better health care at a much less expensive cost.
We’ve also outlined detailed solutions on so many other issues to make life better for every American family.
And while this is really a meeting and that’s what it is. It’s a meeting of very, very special people, and I appreciate you all being here.

…[inaudible]
…One of the top Department of Justice officials, the Assistant Attorney General, is a close associate of Podesta. The two met for dinner after Clinton testified about Benghazi and Podesta described him as the man who kept him out of jail. Works for the Justice Department.
Has our country ever had a situation like it’s going on right now? Have we ever had anything like it?
This is a good time to make an important public service announcement because a lot of things have happened over the last few days.
This is a message for any Democratic voter who have already cast their ballot for Hillary Clinton and who are having a bad case of buyer’s remorse.
In other words, you want to change your vote.
Wisconsin is one of several states where you can change your early ballot if you think you’ve made a mistake.
A lot of stuff has come out since your vote.
So if you live here or in Michigan or in Pennsylvania or in Minnesota, those four places, you can change your vote to Donald Trump. We’ll make America great again. Okay?
She is not going to make America great. She will never make America great.
The Clintons are the sort of past. We are the bright future. And I say we, we, we.
I’m a messenger. I’m only a messenger. Remember. I’m only a messenger. But you have to say I’m doing a pretty good job as a messenger. But I’m the messenger.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability to our government. Finally.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we are all here to say.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
You know, I’ve said this before but it was very interesting because when I first heard the statement, I said, “Give me a break. I hate it.”
…I said it, people went crazy. Then I went to a rally with 18,000 people, I said it, they went totally crazy. And then I said it again and again. This has only been going on for a week and a half, and now I love it. I love this statement. And it is very accurate. It is very accurate.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.

Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. It’s so true. Can you believe it in this country?
43% of African-American school age children live in poverty.
32% of Hispanic school age children live in poverty.
This is our country. This is unacceptable in America.
I will fix it. I will fix it. I will fix it.
I’ve been saying a lot and I’ve been saying and speaking very openly about the inner-cities and saying to the African-American community, the Hispanic community, I’ve been saying “What do you have to lose?” It’s such a disaster. What do you have to lose?
Thank you. We’re going to fix it.
We’re going to bring back great schools.
We’re going to stop the crime. The crime is unbelievable.
We’re going to bring back your jobs.
What do you have to lose? We’re going to fix it.
As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization. We will replace decades of failure with generations of success. We’re going to have generations of success.
America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary’s NAFTA. You know about that. One-third of your jobs.
You know, we have a highway – one-way highway right into Mexico and these other countries. They get the jobs. They get the plants. They get the money. We get the unemployments and the drugs. Not a good deal. That’s going to be changed around, folks. Going to be changed around.
I mean, you listen to this where America has lost – oh, we’re going to build the wall. Don’t worry about it. We’re going to build the wall. That’s not even close.
And Mexico’s going to pay for the wall and they understand that. They understand that.
America has lost – listen to this because it’s impossible. I’ve been saying for two weeks. I just got this stat. For two weeks, I’ve been saying, “Oh, that’s a typo. That’s some kind of an error. Can’t be possible.”
America has lost 70,000 factories. 70,000. I thought they meant 700. I said you have a mistake here. Maybe 7,000. America has lost 70,000 factories because of politicians that don’t know what they’re doing or they’re controlled by special interests.
Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, we are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That’s what’s happening to our country. We’re being treated like we’re stupid people.
We have leaders that don’t know what they’re doing. We have leaders that don’t have a clue.
It’s the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That’s what’s happened to us.
Hutchinson Technology laid off 411 workers right here and moved their jobs to Thailand.
Honeywell laid off 974 workers making printed circuit boards in Chippewa Falls. Their jobs – oh, you won’t be clapping for this. Their jobs went to China.
This is a federal problem because Scott and these people have kept so many of these places but they’re – it’s very hard. It’s very hard. Because we don’t fight with our real tools.
Meaning if you make your products, you want to come back, not going to be so easy. You’re going to pay a nice big fat tax on that product coming in.
TTM Technologies laid off 166 workers and most of them went into Mexico and other places.
Lots of jobs going to China. Lots of jobs going to Japan. Lots of jobs going to South Korea. And unbelievable numbers of jobs and plants and factories and everything else going into Mexico.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Wisconsin. We’ll work with your governor, who’s a great, great governor, and we’re going to stop it. We’re going to stop it.
The theft – and that’s what it is – of American prosperity will come to a very rapid end.
From now on, it’s going to be America first.

A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we will stand up to foreign product dumping all over, currency manipulation, and all of the unfair subsidy behavior that’s going all over our country.
Makes it impossible, impossible, for our businesses to compete. They’ll be competing very soon.
We will also immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. That will be a disaster.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we’re going to lower taxes on American businesses from 35% down to 15%.
We’re the highest-taxed nation in the world.
We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
In Chicago, 3,664 people have been shot since Jan. 1st of this year. Can you believe that?
That’s worse than the places you read about and see in the Middle East. These are war zones.
We have places that are more dangerous.
In Milwaukee, homicides have risen to their highest level in more than 20 years.
Nationwide, murders have experienced their largest single year increase in 45 years.
You don’t hear that from the dishonest media. They don’t tell you that. They don’t tell you that. They don’t tell you that.
They’re there for one reason. They want to protect certain people like Hillary. It’s getting hard to protect her, fellas. It’s getting very hard. It’s getting very, very hard to protect her. Getting very hard to protect her. She’s out of control.
A Trump administration will work with local and federal law enforcement to end this growing crime wave. We have a crime wave.
Every child in America has the right to grow up in safety and in peace.
And we will also keep you safe from terrorism.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syria refugees flowing into our country. Who can even believe it?
Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. We have no choice.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And as I said and as you know, we’re not playing games. Yes, we will build the wall.
And the fact that it’s 110 degrees in this room, I don’t care. Think of it as a sauna. This room was not designed for this many people. Think of it as the sauna and to use the sauna you have to pay money. We get this for nothing.
We’ve received the first ever endorsement from our I.C.E. and border patrol officers. First time they’ve ever endorsed.
16,500 great amazing people.
They tell us the border crisis is the worst it’s ever been. You’ve been reading about it. It’s a national emergency. It’s the worst it’s ever been right now.
You know, you try and get some stats. They don’t want to give you the stats.
The worst it’s ever been right now. Just about as bad as it gets.

Hillary has pledged totally open borders. There goes your country. Which truly would mean the destruction of the United States in a true sense.
The immigration officers warned in a letter when they endorsed me that Hillary’s plan is “the most radical immigration proposal in the United States’s history” and that it would “lead to the loss of thousands of thousands of lives.”
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries very intelligently would not take them back.
They don’t want to take back murderers, drug lords, gang members. They say no.
And let me just tell you something. They would bring them to their country. Their country would say, “No, get them out. Bring them back to the United States where your leaders are stupid people. Bring them back to the United States.”
Let me tell you, that won’t happen whether it’s four years or eight years. That won’t happen once if I’m president. Not once.
One such criminal was set free on Hillary’s watch went on to kill a young American girl, a fantastic young woman named Casey Chadwick, you probably read about her.
The killer who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head previously and who people were begging to incarcerate or send out of our country should have been sent home. Instead he was set free and stabbed in the face and neck 15 different times and stuffed her body in a closet.
People were begging that he’d be sent out.
Well, we’re going to make America safe again, believe me.
That’s one of many. One of many. So many different stories.
Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary cities like in San Francisco, where the incredible Kate Steinle, the incredible woman, was killed in her father’s arms by a five-time deported illegal immigrant.
A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities. We will deport all criminal aliens, stop the drugs from pouring into our communities, and we will end this long nightmare of violence like we’ve never seen before.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice. We have no choice.
That includes great support for nearby Fort McCoy.
I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. It’s a great group nobody has like we have, whether it’s law enforcement, the military, the veterans.
And we are going to take care of our veterans, folks.
Our new foreign policy will put America first.
Hillary brought disaster to Iraq. Just total disaster. To Iraq, Syria, Libya.
She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS with the great void that was created by the way her and President Obama – the campaigner. I call him the campaigning…
Instead of campaigning for Hillary Clinton, where he’s probably now got a conflict in campaigning for her, he ought to focus on bringing jobs back into our country, focus on getting rid of ISIS, focus on lots of other things.
Now, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, a conflict with a nuclear armed Russia that could frankly, for all we know, it could trigger World War III. For what?
Hillary and her failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that never end and that we never win. Remember that. They never end and we never win.
And now, the Middle East is in worse shape than ever before. We could have built our country twice.

We could have rebuilt the United States with $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt it twice.
They dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They have left our borders wide open at home. And they’ve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
To all Americans I say it is now time finally for new leadership for change.
Thank you.
In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And she is going to raise your taxes substantially. Remember that.
We are going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order. There are plenty of them. There are plenty of them. There are plenty of them.
We will rebuild our military and we will take care of our great, great veterans. We’re going to take care of them. They’ve been treated terribly, terribly. Our veterans have been treated terribly.
Thank you.
We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We’re bringing our education local.
We will support the great men and women of law enforcement. That will take place quickly.
…The National Rifle Association – NRA – endorsed me, the earliest endorsement they’ve ever given to anybody running for president.
We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege. We’re going to save our Second Amendment, folks.
And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can’t change, and wants our lives to revolve around Washington D.C.
I am asking you to dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of this great country.
I’m tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean another decade. America is tired of waiting.
The moment is now.
There has never been a movement like this in our country’s history. There never will be perhaps.
But we have to take advantage of it on Nov. 8th. We’re going to turn things around and rapidly. And rapidly.
All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country.

There is no challenge too great and no dream outside of our reach. There is not.
There’s no dream outside of our reach.
Don’t let anyone tell you it can’t be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and she’s accomplished nothing. She’s just made things worse.
She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We are. We are.
Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life.
We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters of which there are many. There are many.
We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power should rule the day for our country.
And I’ve been on the other side and I understand the other side. Perhaps I understand it better than anybody else.
But I love our country and I saw what was happening to our country. And I made the right decision because boy, did I become an outsider quickly. That I could tell you.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
We are fighting to unlock the tremendous potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future, and it will happen.
With your vote, we are just – listen to this, after all of this time – one week – one week. Do you believe it?
This started on June 16th. June 16th.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody.
I will not disappoint you. That I promise. That I promise. You won’t be disappointed.
This great movement started on June 16th of last year and now we’re one week away. Think of it, one week from the change you’re waiting for your entire life. One week away.
So on Nov. 8th, go out. Don’t disappoint yourselves, your families. Don’t worry about me. We have to do it. We really have to do it.
Because together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
God bless you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

Wow! What a nice group. Thank you! Thank you. Thank you! What a nice group. That’s a big group.
We’re having some awfully big groups. Thank you everybody. Thank you.
In 12 days we are going to win Ohio and we are going to win back the White House. Believe me.
A brand new poll just came out. Remington Research has us up 4 points in Ohio.
Early voting is underway so make sure you get out and vote. Right?
This is amazing. All – no matter where we go, we have these massive crowds. We just left one that was 11,000. We just – it’s been amazing the receptivity.
There’s never been anything like this in this country. But you have to get out and vote because otherwise – always.
We’re going to win. We’re going to win big. I think we’re going win a lot bigger than people even understand. You know what I mean. A lot bigger.
We’re tired of stupidity and we’re tired of incompetence, and we’re going to run it properly, and that’s what we want.
We want to make America great again, folks. Very simple.
75% of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. Who are the other 25% just out of curiosity? Who are the 25%?
We’re going to fix it and we’re going to get our country back on the right track.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. What a mess.
It never worked from day one. It was never destined to work. There was no way it was ever going to work and I said before they voted. I said that’s never going to work.
It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience a massive double-digit hike in Obamacare premiums, including a 116% premium hike in the great state of Arizona.
Think of that.
Don’t worry, you’re not going to be so far behind. Don’t worry.
It’s a mess. It’s a mess. It’s going up in numbers like you wouldn’t believe.
Just so you understand, Hillary Clinton is going to double down double up. She wants that thing. She’s going to spend so much money. But you’re going to spend more money.
You’re right. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world. “Craziest thing in the world” where the people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half.
Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged.
Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, destroying American health care forever and destroying businesses forever because you see what it’s doing to businesses small and big.
Just this year, crooked Hillary declared that Obamacare is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country.
Can you imagine – I just standing here saying can you believe this? Can you imagine if that’s one of your greatest accomplishments as president? And it’s a disaster.
And by the way, we’re going to repeal it but it’s going to die of its own weight. It can’t make it anyway.
The insurance companies are all leaving. They’re fleeing.
Here in Ohio, another 5 insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare. You’ll have nobody to negotiate with. Just one maybe and that’s a tough negotiation.

That means all the residents covered by plans from these companies will be getting cancellation notices very shortly. I’m sure you look forward to that.
It’s a catastrophic situation beyond imagination.
Repealing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on Nov. 8th. She wants to keep it.
She wants to keep it. We’re going to repeal it. We’re going to have a really great plan that’s going to cost much less and be much better.
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.
Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldn’t remember 39 times.
The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the Deputy FBI Director overseeing the investigation into Hillary’s illegal server.
We need to re-open the investigation.
Information came out today just a little while ago that’s more devastating than anything you’ve seen so far.
WikiLeaks more information but it pertains to what they knew and it makes all of them – they’re already liars but it confirms it for the 75th time.
Hillary Clinton put the office of Secretary of State up for sale, and if she got the chance, she’d put the Oval Office up for sale also.
I proposed a contract with the American voter that will end the corruption and give the government back to the people.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment – and you know, I’ve been on that side, just so you understand. Life was a lot easier on that side. I didn’t have to do this. But the day I announced – you’re welcome. You’re welcome. You’re welcome.
We had to do the right thing.
The Washington establishment to hear and heed the words I’m about to say.
If we win on Nov. 8th – okay, okay. You’re right. When we win – there’s a lot of good energy in Ohio. That I can tell you.
You know, I worked here very early in my career like the early years. One of the first jobs I’ve ever done, I worked in Cincinnati and it was a great success. And it gave me that confidence. You know? I had a success. And it was confidence, and I love Ohio. Always have.
So when we win, we are going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
You know, that phrase started about a week ago, and I thought it was terrible. I didn’t like it at all. I said, I don’t know. I just don’t like it. And now it’s become one of the hottest phrases anywhere in the world, I like it.
That’s like did you ever see the great singers – Frank Sinatra. Some of his greatest hits, he didn’t like them. But at the end, he liked them very much. Right?
It’s what happened with drain the swamp. It’s a great phrase. But it’s true. The people like it. That’s much more important.

At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. So true.
Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by crooked Hillary.
Remember – who was the one that said that? This guy’s screaming Slick Willy. It’s true. It’s true.
Supported by Slick Willy. I think I’ll make that up.
Remember every time you see a closed factory and before I get into this. This is too depressing.
Is this the most fun you’ll ever have? Right? Right? Being at a Trump rally. Being at a Trump rally. There’s nothing better.
All right. Now let’s get back to the closed factories. Okay?
But every time you see a closed factory, a wiped out community here in Ohio, the Clintons were really involved because NAFTA has been such a disaster and he signed it.
New Mather Metal closed its factory in Toledo and laid off 168 workers and shipped their jobs to Mexico. 2010.
Texti Leather Corporation closed their Toledo factory and laid off 160 workers and moved their job to China and Canada in 2009.
Honeywell’s auto lights factory in Fostoria over the past 16 years has laid off and moved at least 900 jobs to Mexico.
Employees at Dixon Ticonderoga wowowowoo. Dixon Ticonderoga. Right? Is that the name? Who the hell cares? They’re gone. I mean, who cares?
Maybe we’ll get them back. Should we try getting them back?
See? Now with me, they wouldn’t be able to leave because whatever the hell they make, when they go to Mexico and they make their product and they want to send it back over the border and they leave us with closed plants and unemployments and Mexico gets the cash, the employment, the factories, everything. What happens is they make their products. They want to send it across. I say, “No, thank you. It’s a 35% tax to get your product.” Right? Right?
35% tax.
And you know what’s going to happen? If I do it early enough, they’re not leaving. They’re not leaving. They’re not going to leave. And if they do leave, we make a lot of money as a country. That’s okay. But nobody’s leaving.
35% go ahead leave. We’ll enjoy it very much.
We’ve lost and I say this all the time because it’s hard to believe – 70,000 factories. I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 or 7,000. It’s 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
Under my contract, if a company wants to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries, and ship their products back into the United States as I said, we will put a 35% tax or tariff on those products and they will not leave. Not going to leave.
Now, the politicians knew this. Some of them did. Some of them probably don’t because they don’t have any basic understanding of the way the system works. But a lot of them knew this but they’re controlled by special interests.
You know, I’ll have over $100 million invested in this campaign, meaning – oh, you know, if I don’t win, I will consider that – some of these dishonest people back here. And they are among the world’s most dishonest. They are disgusting. They are among the world’s most dishonest people.
But believe it or not, some of them, they said this what we have all done together is one of the great political phenomenas. Some – Bill O’Reilly said this is the single greatest political phenomenon that he’s ever witnessed. Right? Right?

But I’ll tell you what. I’ll be in for over $100 million and a lot of work and a lot of energy. And they were saying it doesn’t matter. What you’ve done will go down in the record books and history.
Because you know, let’s face it. When we started, it was 17 people, I wasn’t exactly favored to win. The only people that thought that I was going to win were the people that knew me. Right?
I have friends that went and placed bets. They said anytime I can place a bet 3% on Trump, I will – I have one friend who made a lot of money.
But you know what? One by one they’ve disappeared, and now we’re down to one person who’s got low energy. Very low energy. She goes to sleep.
So look, here’s the story, folks. Here’s the story. Who is more low energy? Bill O’Reilly just asked me. I just did Bill O’Reilly. He’s on tonight. He said who’s more low energy. Jeb Bush or Hillary Clinton? He just asked me that.
What’s the answer? Who? Who? Who’s more low energy? I don’t know.
And you know what I say? Doesn’t matter.
Ohio is at the center of American motor vehicles and the industry is really suffering in terms of production.
According to the state development, almost 75% of all light vehicles produced in North America are made in Ohio or within 500 miles of this great state.
The auto industry and its feeder industries account for 10% of Ohio’s economy.
75 of Ohio’s 88 counties have at least one automotive industry business.
Nearly 1 in 8 Ohio residents are either directly or indirectly employed by the auto industry.
Hillary Clinton supported and lobbied for the South Korea trade agreement. You know that one. That’s been another disaster. On the promise of 75,000 new jobs.
Instead, her trade destroyed 100,000 jobs, mostly in the auto industry.
And believe me, as you stand here today, your executives are negotiating deals to move businesses out of Ohio and into Mexico and other countries because we have nobody to protect our companies and really nobody to protect our workers.
Next – you’ve got me. You’ve got me. Believe me. I’ll protect you.
Hillary wants the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will kill the rest of our auto jobs and kill jobs generally speaking in this country.
Here’s the good news. It will never be as bad as NAFTA. You’d never thought I’d say that.
NAFTA is the all-time king. There’ll never be anything like it.
First of all, it was defective the day it was signed. You know, it’s a different tax system. Theirs is a VAT tax system. Right? Look, there’s a person clapping because only one person understands in this whole audience. Right? You know what I’m saying.
It’s a VAT tax system. So before we even start, if we go in or they come out, we are 17% behind their tax is almost 17%. So we’re 17 – so it was a defective agreement for many years and nobody ever fixed it. So they had this huge advantage for many years because of the tax systems.
I will stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership and I will bring the auto jobs back to America and keep your remaining auto jobs in Ohio. Believe me, nobody’s leaving. They may leave for a different state, don’t get angry at me, but we’ve got to keep them in our country. We love our country. Right?
We will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA – that disaster. And if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal. All right? Believe me.
You know, folks, it’s got to be a two-way street. Right? You know, you want some coming this way. The problem is it’s a one-way highway right out.
As part of our plan to bring back American jobs, we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35% down to 15%. We’ll go from the highest to among the lowest.
Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes on small businesses up to 45%. What a difference? You know, what a difference this is.
And just thinking to myself right now, we should just cancel the election and just give it to Trump. Right?
…Why are we having it?
Her policies are so bad. Boy, do we have a big difference.

Hillary also says she wants to put coal miners out of work. Not going to happen. Stop producing shale energy in most places, and place a permanent moratorium on energy development on federal lands where vast coal and shale energy and other forms of energy are located.
My administration will unleash all sources of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, renewables, and clean coal. And we’re putting the miners back to work. We will put our miners back to work.
And we will put our steelworkers who are under siege back to work.
We will become a rich nation once again.
A woman came up to me three months ago. She said, “Mr. Trump, I love you. I’m going to vote for you. But you’re making a terrible mistake when you talk about making our country rich again. It doesn’t sound good.” I said to me it sounds good. Why? She explained and I understand. You know, in this world of politically correct, you’re going to be rich again. We’re going to make a rich country again.
We need to be a rich country again. If we’re going to do what we have to do in terms of infrastructure, which is a disaster.
You know, we spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. And we are not in far worse shape in the Middle East than if our president just went to the beach everyday. Right?
Or in the case of Obama, went golfing everyday instead of every other day. Right?
You see, the problem is he went every other day so therefore the day he stayed in the White House was not good.
And what about this? What about a guy who’s constantly campaigning for crooked Hillary? It’s all he does. Right? It’s all he does.
He campaigns – this guy ought to be in the White House working on jobs, working on our military, working on defeating ISIS. What a terrible situation.
But to be a rich country, we also must be a safe country.
Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world. The vacuum was created and it spread into the United States.
There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in the United States.
ISIS is on a campaign of genocide against Christians in the Middle East or what they call the Nation of the Cross. It’s what they call – the Nation of the Cross.
Think of that. Think of that. That’s the term they have for Christians.
And people – who said that over there? Let me see. Who said that? Who’s the guy?
Don’t worry – they’re going to be – I’ll tell you, they are dreaming of having her win.
Do you ever notice – she says we’re going to work on the tax code, we’re going to work on ISIS, we’re going to work on this. She’s been there for 30 years. What’s she been doing? Right? What’s she been doing?
ISIS is dreaming – ISIS is dreaming of her becoming president. That I can tell you.
They’re crucifying, drowning, and beheading their victims. Not since Medieval times have we seen what’s happening.
Have you ever thought you’d see this? They’re throwing people off buildings and hanging their victims from meat hooks.
The New York Post just published reports about ISIS crushing children to death and burning adults alive.
This is what we have. This is what has been unleashed.
Now, Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world where ISIS operates, including a 550% increase in Syrian refugees entering our country over and above the thousands and thousands already coming here under Obama.
A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror prone regions and we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And you know what? We’ll work and we’ll build safe zones in Syria. We’ll do things. We’ll get the Gulf States to put in the money because our country has no money. We owe $20 trillion – doubled up under Obama.
And yet, our roads are no good and our tunnels and our hospitals and our bridges and our schools.

So we owed all this money.
You know, I like to say if we owe the money and we’re in tippy top shape. Right? Tippy top. But we’re not in tippy top. We’re in terrible shape. Pretty sad. Pretty sad.
Let me state this as clearly as I can.
If I’m elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic – when I’m elected president, ready to get out and vote. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me. Believe me.
Hillary also said she wants totally open borders, meaning you don’t have a country anymore.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a wall. A real wall. This will be a real wall. And Mexico will pay for the wall.
Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. And by the way, the border patrol agents and I.C.E. both endorsed me. Endorsed me. First time they’ve ever endorsed a candidate for president.
Right here in Ohio, 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik was murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant. Earlier that day, her killer shot a woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than 3 weeks before the crime spree but federal authorities, under Obama, refused to take him into custody. People that knew this thug were begging – were begging – that he be incarcerated. He was so dangerous. Nothing was done.
Then there was the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, a Minnesota farmer who was brutally beaten by illegal immigrants and left to bleed to death in his own house.
Earl’s body was found with his hands bound behind his back in duct tape and blunt force injuries to his head.
His killers had criminal records a mile long but they did not meet the Obama administration’s priority for removal.
Then you had the recent case of 800 people – tough ones – who were going to be deported. You saw that three weeks ago. Right? They were going to be deported. Now, you know if they’re going to be deported from our country, they got to be trouble. What happened is there was a mistake made, and instead of deporting them, congratulations everybody, they became United States citizens. And it was a mistake made. Instead of 800, I have a little bad news for you, instead of 800, it was close to 1,800 people. So they became.
So I then said very strongly then undo the error. Undo the error. And they said we can’t do that. It would not be constitutional. Can you believe this? Can you believe it? Right?
I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers, and the gang members – when I win – when, when! Do you understand me? Your long reign of crime and terror will come to a crashing end. We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military where we have our greatest people.
We will rebuild our army, which is the smallest since World War II. And maybe we need it more than ever before. Almost ever before. We’ve had some pretty bad times too. But we need strength. Peace through strength. Right?
New order for equipments for our troops will need to come to places like Lima, Ohio. I like Lima better. What do you like? Home of the Abrams tank. Is that the best tank in the world? Is it? Is it the best?

And we will change our foreign policy.
Hillary Clinton’s policies in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya threw the Middle East into turmoil.
Now, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III.
And you see the way she talks about Putin. I mean, no wonder Putin doesn’t like her and has no respect for her.
You know, they’re nuclear armed. It’s all right. It would be nice if we got along. If we don’t, we don’t. But it would be nice.
But how can he get along with her? How can he get along with her? He’s got no respect for her, number one. And the way she talks, it’s ridiculous.
I’ll tell you what, honestly, if we can have a good relationship with Russia, that would be a good thing. Not a bad thing. I mean, I hate to say it. It’d be a good thing.
I don’t know that that will happen but it’ll be a good thing.
One thing, I’ll figure it out real fast. You understand that. Right? I’ll figure it out real fast.
To all Americans, I say it’s time for a new leadership. We have to have new leadership.
We cannot have another four years of Barack Obama. Cannot.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring your education local.
We’re going to rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans. They have not been taken care of.
We will support the wonderful men and women of law enforcement.
Save the Second Amendment, which is under siege, and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have defer their dreams to another day but really you and I know it’s another decade or many decades away.
It’s like our politics are caught in a total time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over again who keep making the same mistakes and who keep offering the same old tired excuses.
These career politicians keep telling us that things can’t change, that we can’t try new solutions.

Not only try. The new solutions are common sense. So simple.
I mean, keeping our jobs. That’s going to work, folks. Let me tell you. It’s amazing, it’s amazing that it’s gone this long. But again, the special interests, the donors, they control the politicians.
But I have a message for them. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
I’m asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big like we used to in this country. Big and bold for our future.
I’m going to fight for every American of every background in every stretch of this nation.
I’m going to fight for every mother who has lost her child to illegal immigration or drugs or gang violence.
I am going to fight for every community in Ohio, in Michigan, in Pennsylvania and all around this nation whose jobs have been ripped out and shipped to other countries because we have people that are not capable of properly representing us.
So sad. So easy and so sad.
I’m going to fight for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
And I’m going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We’re living in a divided country. It’s not going to be divided. We’re going to love everybody like we love the people in this room.
Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag. Think about that.
Once again, we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
And we’re going to work on our ghettos so the – you take a look at what’s going on where you have pockets of areas of land where you have the inner cities and you have so many things so many problems, so many horrible, horrible problems. The violence, the deaths, the lack of education, no jobs.
We’re going to work with the African-American community and we’re going to solve the problem of the inner city. We’re going to solve the problem.
We’re going to bring back jobs to the inner cities. We’re going to bring proper education, including school choice. And we’re going to bring safety back. We’re going to bring safety back.
You can’t walk out the streets. You buy a loaf of bread and you end up getting shot.
So we’re going to work very strongly with the African-American community.
And remember this: The Democrats have been talking about this for years. I mean, 50, 80, 90, 100, unbroken.
We are going to solve the educational problem, the crime problem, and the jobs problem of the inner cities. And a lot of people are going to be very happy. Gonna finally happen.
They’ve been talking. They want your vote. So they come in and they get your vote and then they get your vote four years later and then they get your vote again. And at some point, people say, “That’s enough.”
They only want your vote. Hillary wants your vote. That’s all.
Together, we will make all together America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again.
And guess what the last one is? See all those beautiful caps?
We will make America great again.
Thank you, Ohio. Thank you. Get out and vote. God bless you everybody. Get out and vote. Thank you.

Thank you.
In 5 days, we are going to win the great state of Florida, and we are going to win back the White House.
Just out, a few minutes ago, the new Rasmussen poll has up 3 up right now. 3 up nationwide.
We’re leading in Florida. We’re leading in Ohio. We’re leading in Iowa.
I think we’re leading in North Carolina, which is big. Doing well in Pennsylvania right there. But we are leading all over.
I’ll tell you what, we are going to have something that’s going to be very special.
Get out there on Tuesday. Don’t fail.
Who has already voted, by the way? That’s pretty good. It’s about 82%. Gotta vote.
We’re on the cusp of something that’s so amazing. It’s a historic change.
A transfer of power from a failed political establishment. We’re going to return that power to you, the American people.
There is more breaking news that I’d like to share with you right now.
It was reported last night that the FBI is conducting a criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton’s pay-for-play corruption during her tenure as Secretary of State.
In other words, the FBI is investigating how Hillary Clinton put the office of Secretary of State up for sale in violation of federal law.
The investigation is described as a high priority. It’s far reaching and has been going on for more than one year. It was reported that an avalanche of information is coming in. The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield an indictment.
But just remember, the system is rigged. Just remember that.
And reports also show the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying to protect Hillary Clinton and is interfering with the FBI’s criminal investigation.
By comparison, four-star general, just last week, James Cartwright, highly respected, is in very serious trouble for a doing a tiny fraction of what Clinton did. May go to jail for up to 5 years. Think of it. General Cartwright, last week four-star general respected by everybody, a tiny tiny fraction, may go to jail for now 5 years.
And General Petraeus’s life and reputation has been destroyed for doing nothing. Nothing by comparison to what Hillary Clinton did.
She shouldn’t even be allowed to run for the office of president. She shouldn’t be allowed, and that is where the system is rigged. She shouldn’t be allowed.
It was also reported that the laptops of Clinton’s top aides, which had been slated for destruction, were not, in fact, destroyed. Good job by the FBI.
And that the FBI has been successfully using them to gather information for their criminal investigation.
Further, they have found new emails as part of the 650,000 emails just recently found.

Can you imagine 650,000? What do these people do? No wonder nothing gets done in government. 650…I guess you’ll say those 650. Remember the 33? Well, the 650,000. Also the wedding and some yoga, right?
Finally, it is believed that no less than five foreign intelligence agencies successfully hacked into Clinton’s illegal insecure server, which contained classified information creating an ongoing security threat to the United States.
Think of what happened to so many people for doing so little by comparison. Think of it.
Hillary Clinton has engaged in a massive, far-reaching, criminal conduct and equally far-reaching cover-up.
She created an illegal email server to shield and guard her activity. So simple. So simple.
Should have happened a long time ago, folks. Now we’re going through phase two which sounds like we’re in phase one. Should have happened in phase one but she was protected by the Department of Justice.
She illegally transmitted confidential information and then lied about it to Congress.
She illegally destroyed federal records, including 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena.
And she made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. Who in this room has gotten rid of a phone and then smashed the hell out of it with a hammer? Anybody?
Raise your hand, please. Raise your hand…I see one hand over there. I see a hand there. What business are you in? I want to know. No, I don’t want to know. I don’t want to meet him.
She engaged in corrupt pay-for-play at the State Department for personal enrichment.
She lied to the FBI, and she lied to the American people many, many times.
Remember she lied 39 times. “I don’t recall. I don’t recall.” Well, those are lies because she recalled every one of them.
These are sad events for our country. A high-ranking government official has been caught selling her public office, threatening national security, and engaging in a massive criminal cover-up.
If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis.
Here we go again with Clinton. You remember the impeachment and the problems.
She’s likely to be under investigation for many, many years, also likely to conclude in a criminal trial.
This is not what we need in this country, folks. We need somebody that’s going to go to work, to bring our jobs back, to take care of our military, to strengthen up our borders.
This is not what we need. It’s going to be a mess, and they say it, they say it. This is going to be a mess for many years to come before they figure it all out.
We don’t need that. We need a president that’s going to go in and do the job.
And I just left, by the way, Miami and in leaving I see Air Force One. So I said to myself, “I wonder who that could be?”
And it’s our president and he’s down here campaigning for crooked Hillary. Now, why isn’t he back in the office, sometimes referred to as “The Oval Office”. Why isn’t he back in the White House bringing our jobs back and helping our veterans? Why? Why isn’t he back working? He’s campaigning every day.
And I actually think, considering that she is under criminal investigation, I think he’s actually got a conflict.

One of the things that taught us, WikiLeaks, he knew she had a lot of wrong things going on. You know that. That also came out. Obama knew what was going on, by the way. Just in case you didn’t know. He knew.
This guy ought to be back in office working. He’s not going to be there very long. Thank goodness. But he ought to be back in the office working.
We don’t win anymore as a country. We don’t win with our military. We don’t win on trade.
This guy ought to get back to the office and stop campaigning.
If we win on Nov. 8th, we will once again have a government of, by, and for the people.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that the residents of Florida are going to experience a massive, double digit premium hike.
Whose got their number yet? Does anybody know? Should I tell you? Do you want me to depress everybody? You’ll just put your head down, start crying, and leave. I won’t tell you. I don’t want to tell you.
You know why? Because if I do, you’ll be so depressed. I don’t like people leaving a speech early, crying.
You’re not going to like it, folks.
In the great state of Arizona though, as an example, premiums are going up more than 116%.
And it doesn’t work. Obamacare doesn’t work.
I’m repealing it. We’re going to replace it with something so much better and so much cheaper.
Hillary’s going to double up.
Over 90% of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insurers next year. Think of it. Good luck in that negotiation.
In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60%, the Democratic governor has said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Oh, did he take heat. Him and Bill Clinton.
Did Bill Clinton take heat? He said it’s crazy, Obamacare. He said, it’s crazy.
They lied to us. The president lied to us 28 times. He said you can keep your doctor. You can keep your plan. Remember? He kept lying and lying and lying.
Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are leaving, and deductibles are through the roof.
Sometimes $15,000. In other words, you have to spend $15,000 before you start using it.
Obamacare is a total catastrophe. Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double down Obamacare. She doesn’t want to terminate it. She doesn’t want to get rid of it. She wants to double down, making it much more expensive than it is right now. And it’s right now ridiculous.
It’s your number one cost right now. Bigger than your mortgage. It’s bigger than your rent. First time that’s ever happened.
I’m asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Florida and our country. So important.
Real change also means restoring honesty to government.
Hillary was given the debate questions in advance by Donna Brazile.
By the way, can you imagine if those questions because the dishonest media, among the world’s most dishonest people by the way, it’s not even a big story. Mainstream media hardly covers it. They hardly talk.
Think about it, she got the debate questions against Bernie Sanders. Probably got the ones against me too but we won that debate very easily. Those debates. We won those debates, and I don’t care if she got them. Except that it shows how dishonest.
But think of this, supposing I got the debate questions, it would be front page of the Washington Post. It would be front page of the New York Times. He must immediately withdraw from the race. What he did is disgraceful.
I’ll tell you what. They don’t even write about it.
So, Donna Brazile was fired from CNN. That’s good.
But why wasn’t she fired from the DNC? Because what she did was totally dishonest.
Did you see her on television the other night? She couldn’t answer. Uh well. Where did you get them? Where did you get them? Where did you get them? She’s gone. That’s the question I was asking though.

Where did you get those questions? Where did you got them.
“Well — I got them, I don’t know where I got them.”
I’ll tell you what. She should be fired. She should be fired.
But much more importantly, Hillary Clinton should be fired. Hillary Clinton.
Because Donna Brazile couldn’t answer the questions. She looked like a fool on television. But she couldn’t answer the questions.
But you know what was worse? She took the questions and gave them to crooked Hillary.
And that’s cheating, and crooked Hillary instead of saying “I’m sorry I can’t accept them we have to report this incident”, she took the questions went in and had good answers for Bernie.
At some point doesn’t Bernie Sanders get tired of it? They’re calling him all these names, they’re cheating on him. Doesn’t he tell his supporters to go vote for Trump at some point? Right?
And I haven’t seen one story where Hillary Clinton – they blame Donna Brazile. A little bit. Very little.
But seriously can you imagine if it was me that got those questions? You know what I’ve been saying. They would reinstitute the electric chair, right? Front page news. Front page news.
She’s a very dishonest person, probably the most dishonest person ever to run for the office of president. I really believe. I believe that.
The Clintons are the sordid past, and someday they’ll start writing about these dishonest people back there.
Someday they will ask the question and they will do a front-page headline “Why didn’t Hillary Clinton report that she got the confidential guarded questions to a debate?”
And someday these dishonest people are going to write a story about it in mainstream media.
But we’re the bright future.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. We understand it.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all have to say. We. All of us. A lot of us. There’s a lot of us. This is a movement they’ve never seen this before in this country.
That’s why we don’t want to blow it now, because you’re allowed to vote early. But we don’t want to blow it in Nov. 8th because this is movement like they’ve never seen before. All of them – even the ones that dislike me, which there are quite a few of those people. But all of them.
This is a movement like they’ve never seen in the country. But it will end quickly. It will end quickly if we don’t go out to vote on Nov. 8th.
So let’s not let it end. Let’s keep it because we’re going to make America great again, folks. We’re going to make America great again.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp. Right.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. They’ve been stolen.
Florida has lost one and four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife Hillary.
America has lost 70,000. Listen to that number. I thought it was a typo. For weeks I have been saying it. 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed deal.
We’re going to get it back, folks. Don’t worry.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. It’s what it is. Greatest thing of it. Greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving the state of Florida. I can tell you. Quickly, very quickly.
The theft of American prosperity will end.
And we don’t mind that it’s 115 degrees in this room, right? Do we mind? It is hot in this room. But you know what? That’s okay. We lose a couple pounds not the worst thing in the world, right?
From now on, it’s going to be America first.
A Trump administration will negotiate NAFTA, and we will stand up to foreign product dumping, currency manipulation, and all unfair subsidy behavior, which is a lot.

We will also immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. A disaster. Another disastrous potential deal.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs we’re going to lower taxes on American business from 35 % to 15%.
We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations. Billions and billions of dollars. And use that money to support America’s environmental and national infrastructure.
By the way, folks, we’re sending billions and billions of dollars. We’re making our companies non-competitive. Other companies throughout the world are killing us and other countries don’t adhere to whatever they’re supposed to do. But we are sending them all this money.
Here is what we want. We want crystal clean water. We want immaculately clean air…
Above that folks, let’s go to town and let’s employ a lot of people.
We are going to spend a lot of money in our infrastructure, including the deepening which you need of the harbor at JackPort. Do we all know JackPort?
We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
In Chicago 3,715 people have been shot since Jan. 1st. Think of that. Think of that. Almost 4,000 people. 4,000 people have been shot since Jan. 1st.
Nationwide, murders have experienced their largest single year increase in 45 years.
Now, the press doesn’t tell you that, because the press is guarding Hilary Clinton, and the press doesn’t want you to know the real facts about your jobs, about all of the things – about our military which is now bogged down in Mosul.
Remember I said why can’t we ever go in there like quietly and secretly and do the job? Right? Remember I said the element of surprise.
And they came, Oh, what does Trump know about? I know plenty. Believe me.
They’re bogged down. It’s a tough situation.
Four months ago, we’re going into Mosul.
I kept saying every time I turned the television on, “Oh why do they have to say it”.
We’re going to get the leaders of ISIS. This is four months. We are going in! Because we believe the leaders of Isis are in Mosul. Four months, three months ago. We are going into Mosul. We’re going to get those leaders.
The problem is after we said it the first time within about 12 minutes they were gone.
We are led by stupid people. Remember that. Stupid people. Stupid people.
Wouldn’t it be nice if we didn’t talk? We did the job, and you had the news conference a week later – wouldn’t that be nice? – to announce good results. These are not god results.
A Trump administration will work with local and federal law enforcement to end this growing crime wave. It’s very substantial. Every child in America has the right to grow up in safety and in peace.
We will also keep you safe from terrorism.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the country. They will be pouring into the country. That’s above Obama’s unbelievable thousands and thousands coming in.
Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading across your schools and your communities.
And that’s one of the reasons we have all those “Women for Trump” signs. Okay? Believe me. The women don’t want this.
And by the way, I have to tell you. I think I have tremendous support from women. Tremendous. I think we have tremendous support.
We’re going to keep our country safe.
You know they say “Well, what will you do for women?” I say start off with keep our country safe. Is that good? Is that a good starter?
I think we are going to do tremendously with women.
We’re doing tremendously with African-Americans. You see that. You see what’s going on.

You see it. You see what’s going on.
You know, these characters in the back, they’re very discouraged because all these lines, people with hats on saying, “Make America great”. Buttons, shirts.
But big reports about tremendous support from groups that I was not supposed to have as much support from, it’s throwing them a little bit off balance. They’re not happy. They’re not happy. The protected one is not being very well-protected.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program, and we will keep – we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Okay? Believe me. Keep them out.
And we’ll build safe havens and we’ll do things over in Syria. We’ll get other countries to pay for it.
We have $20 trillion in debt.
But we will get the Gulf States. They have a lot of money. They have tremendous money. They’ll pay for it, I promise. Because we have to take care of people.
But honestly, we have enough – have enough problems in this country.
Look at what’s happening to France. Look at Paris.
I have a friend every year he goes to Paris every year. I haven’t seen him in a long time. Paris, oh the City of Lights, he used to tell me. For years. Paris. Paris.
I see him like a month ago. “How is Paris this summer?”
“Oh, I don’t go to Paris. Are you kidding me? It’s no longer Paris.”
He hasn’t been there in a long time.
We’re going to have our country be great again, folks, okay? We’re going to have smartness. We’re going to do it properly. We’re going to do it properly. We’re going to do it through love. We’re going to do it a lot of different ways. But we’re going to have our country be great.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a great wall!
And Mexico, which is making a fortune with us, just a fortune at the border and through trade deficit. Our trade deficit with Mexico is enormous. Just in case ya – well, it’s enormous with everybody. Why should they be any different in all fairness?
Mexico will pay for the wall. Okay? Believe me. They will pay for the wall. 100%. They might not know it yet but they’re paying for the wall.
We received the first ever endorsement from our I.C.E. and border patrol officers.
They tell us the border crisis is the worst it’s ever been. It’s a national emergency.
The immigration officers warned in a letter that Hillary Clinton’s plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history, and that it will lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives. That’s what they wrote us.
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed many, many people – the most dangerous and violent criminals in the world – to go free because their home countries very intelligently wouldn’t accept them back.
So we take a killer, a drug lord, a vicious gang member bring them back to their countries, and then they’d say “Turn that plane around and get them out of here.”
And Hillary Clinton’s State Department would say, “Oh well, that’s too bad. Well, we’ll accept them.” And they go on our streets and they kill people.
Hillary Clinton supports. And I guarantee you one thing, in four years or eight years, I guarantee you one thing, there won’t be one instance, not one where one of these murderers or drug people or gang members – not one instance, folks – where that plane will come back with that person on that plane. I guarantee you that. There won’t be one instance.
Hillary Clinton supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who was deported at least five times.

And we’re putting very, very strong language in. It’s going to be submitted the first day I’m in office.
When they come in once, we deport them. When they come in twice, they go to jail for five years. When they come in another one, it’ll be 10 years.
And you know what’s going to happen? Sort of pretty simple. They hear they get caught again, they go to jail for five years. Guess what’s going to happen? They’re not coming back, folks.
Now our people don’t want to do it. Our weak, weak politicians don’t want to do that.
A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.
We will end illegal immigration. We are going to stop drugs from pouring into your communities and poisoning our youths and everybody else. And we will deport all criminal aliens quickly from our country.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We’re going to rebuild them.
Our navy is as small as it…Have you heard this? To me, this is sad.
And then you wonder why China, who’s making a fortune on us. They make our product, they take our money, and they’re fine. I have a great relationship with. I’ve made a fortune with China. The biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in New York. China. Biggest bank in the world, from China.
But you know what? You know what? They’re building right now a tremendous fortress in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doing it, but they’re doing it because they have no respect for Obama. They laugh at Hillary. They think – they think that Hillary is a joke. She’s a joke. She’s a joke.
You know what? They dream, they dream, they go to sleep at night, these tough leaders, you know they’re tough and smart. They’re smart and really tough. They go to dream at night, they go to sleep, and they dream that Hillary Clinton becomes president. That’s what their dream is.
I’ve made a lot of money with China. I’m not sure they like the idea of me either. But that’s okay.
And we’ll get along great with China. We’ll get along with China better than now.
I guarantee they won’t be building forts in the middle of the sea, totally against everything.
What they’re doing is such a big violation but they have no respect for Obama and they no longer respect our country.
Our navy is the smallest it has been since World War I.
We will build the 350 ship navy that our country needs and desires and must have.
That means brand new state-of-the-art ships in places like Mayport, right here in Jacksonville.
I’m honored, and this is a great honor for me, to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.
I’m also honored to have the greatest temperament that anybody has because we know how to win.
She spends a billion dollars. She spends so much money.
I see these ads. People that know me say, “How can they say that?”
No, we have. You know what? We have a temperament because – we have a certain temperament. It’s a temperament of knowing how to win. Knowing how to win.
The leaders of our country, boy, you talk about temperament.
And interestingly, whether it’s Podesta or Bernie Sanders, Podesta said Hillary has bad instincts.
And I’ll be honest, I’ve read the things that that he has said about Hillary on the WikiLeaks, and if I were Hillary, I would fire Podesta so fast. He says such demeaning things about her – she’s got bad instincts. I mean, you’ve read some of the things. It’s incredible.
You know, how do you have people working for you and then you have to deal with them? And it was all behind her back. He must be a bad guy. I don’t know him.
But to say the things he said about her, she should look at him say, “Podesta, you’re fired.”
But she can’t do that. She probably needs him as a witness in the criminal case so she can’t do that.
Our new foreign policy will put America first.
Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya. She empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS.
You know, she wants to get rid of ISIS. She’s the one that started it. It came through the vacuum. Now it’s in 32 countries.

And I watched her during the debate meekly talk about ISIS, and I said to her, “You’ve been here for 30 years, Hillary. You started ISIS. You were Secretary of State when it started. Why are you going to get rid of it? You can’t get rid of anything. You don’t know what you’re doing.”
Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia that could very well lead to World War III.
And remember Putin has no respect for her either. Has no respect for her. Doesn’t like her, doesn’t respect her, doesn’t respect Obama and doesn’t like him.
Hillary and her failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East. Wars we never win, and now it’s in worse shape than ever before. Wars we never win, folks.
They’ve dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, and they took us, they opened up our borders. You know it’s interesting. We fight for their borders but at home, we have open borders. Try and figure that one out.
We fight like hell for their borders. We spent trillions of dollars to do it. But at home, we have open borders.
And they’ve shipped our jobs on top of everything and our wealth to other countries.
That’s gonna end very quickly.
Our jobs are coming back and our companies aren’t leaving.
And if our companies want to leave, there are consequences. If they want to go to Mexico or some other country and build a plant and make air conditioners like Carrier’s doing or build cars like Ford is doing. Ford is moving an entire massive division there, all small car production.
If they want to do that, you tell them very nicely, “I’m sorry..”
You know, I always joke that I want to make those calls so badly. I don’t want to put anybody in charge of those calls. They’re so easy and they’re short. And our politicians should have done this for years.
But you tell them that when you make your air conditioners, your car, whatever it might be, you build in Mexico, enjoy the weather. When that car or that product comes through our very strong border, now it’ll be a very strong border, there will be a 35% tax.
And you know what’s going to happen? Nobody’s going to leave, folks.
Now the politicians know this but they’re all taken care of by these special interests groups that want that to happen.
But there’ll be a 35% tax and nobody’s leaving.
And the ones that do leave, that’s okay too. We’ll make a lot of money.
But nobody says it. Does anybody say it like Trump? Right? So simple.
To all Americans, I say it’s time for new leadership.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan.
And Hillary is raising taxes very substantially. She’s raising your taxes.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
We’re going to rebuild our military and take care of our great, great, great veterans. They’ve never been taken care of properly. 22 suicides a day. Not gonna happen.
We’re going to take care of our veterans, and I appreciate all the support I get from the military.
There’s a big article today on the front page of the New York Times, and they say, “Boy, does Trump have support from the military”.
And by the way and law enforcement, and by “military”, I mean, including big leagues…our veterans, right, you know?
How many veterans are here right now? A lot. Big, big story. The veterans, the military, and law enforcement.
We’re going to provide school choice, and we’re going to put an end to Common Core. We’re going to bring our education local.
We are going to support the great men and women of law enforcement. We’re going to support them.
We’re going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.
Great people. You know, we have the endorsement of the NRA. It’s great. These are great people. The earliest they’ve ever given.
And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. So important. So important.

It is time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and she has accomplished nothing. Just words and just made things worse.
She is the candidate of yesterday. It’s going to be really interesting to see what happens to her.
I wonder. So let me ask you. Let me ask you.
She shouldn’t be allowed to run based on the email scandals and all the.
Okay, so let me ask you this question. I’ve never done this before.
Will justice be done or not? Will justice be done, yes or no?
I don’t know. I don’t know. I’m not sure anybody knows the answer. They’re protecting her and it’s very unfair.
So do you think justice will be done? We’re going to have to see.
I see the audience like you’re so confused – I don’t know. Who knows? We’re going to see.
I’ll tell you what, it’s very, very unfair to a lot of people.
And you know what? It’s very, very unfair to the FBI, if you want to know the truth. Very unfair to the FBI. They’re out there doing their job and they’re being road blocked. They’re out there doing their job. They’re amazing people and they’re being roadblocked.
We are the movement of the future. Our movement represents all American from all backgrounds and all walks of life.
We’re asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters of which there are many.
We are fighting for every American who believes in truth and justice, not money and power.
I’ll tell you, we are going to rule the day. This group. We’re going to rule the day. This group and many, many like you.
Every place we go, every place we go, the love of this country is incredible.
Thank you, honey.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
We’re fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future.
With your vote, we are just – can you believe this? – five days away from the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life. Five days away.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless you.

…This is amazing. This is amazing. Unbelievable.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, everybody. This is amazing. And you know? We have 7,000 people outside trying to get in. Can you believe it?
In four days, we are going to win the great state of Pennsylvania and we are going to win back the White House. We are going to win it back. Unbelievable. Look at this.
Maybe because I went to school in Pennsylvania. Maybe that’s the reason. Maybe.
My kids went to school in Pennsylvania, smart place, Pennsylvania.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that the residents of Pennsylvania are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike. No good.
In the great state of Arizona, where I just left, premiums are going up more than 116%.
All 67 counties in Pennsylvania are losing Obamacare insurers next year. Lots of luck negotiating, folks.
But it won’t matter because it will be terminated. You won’t have to bother. We’ll have great health care – much less expense, much lower price. You’ll be paying a fraction of what you’re paying and you’re going to get really good stuff. I can tell you.
Premiums are surging on Obamacare. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting. And deductibles are through the roof. You have deductibles – $13,000, $14,000, $15,000. Nobody’s ever seen anything so ridiculous.
And yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.
And she also wants to, by the way, raise your taxes very substantially.
I’m asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Pennsylvania and our country.
We’re going to do it, folks. We’re going to do it. Boy, are we going to win. We are going to win Pennsylvania big.

I hear we set a new record for this building.
And by the way, I didn’t have to bring JLo or Jay Z. The only way she gets anybody. I’m here all by myself.
I am here all by myself.
Just me, no guitar, no piano, no nothing.
But you know what we do have? And it’s all of us and it’s all the same. We all have great ideas and great vision for our country. That’s what we have.
…So I know we have two of our great congressmen here – Tom Marino, Lou Barletta. They’re here. Where are they? No, we love them. Folks, they’re great.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. As you know, the FBI has re – and you know this. Has anybody heard? Has anybody heard? Just a little rumor. Just a little rumor.
I think a couple of you – as you know, the FBI has re-opened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.
They’re also conducting a second criminal investigation into Hillary’s pay-for-play corruption at the State Department.
Last night, it was just confirmed that the 650,000 – can you believe that number? – emails they discovered include brand new email not previous seen by authorities. Likely, there will be classified information loaded.
However, the reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying very hard, actually as hard as they can, to protect Hillary Clinton from the FBI. From the FBI.
And I salute the FBI for taking this step.
Remember, John Podesta, her top person, said Hillary Clinton has bad instincts. WikiLeaks. Bernie Sanders says she has bad judgment.
So she’s got bad instincts and she’s got bad judgment. Why are we putting her to run for president, right?
I mean, why is she running? Bad instincts.
Now, you know, Sanders was running against her so he says bad judgment.
Here’s a guy who works with her all the time and he puts in email that Hillary has bad instincts.
That’s not what we want for president, folks.
And then you have President Obama, instead of getting jobs, instating of taking care of our military, instead of beating ISIS, he’s out campaigning all the time. He ought to go back to the Oval Office and go to work.
She created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and then she illegally destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. The key word is after.
So gets the subpoena – congressional subpoena – you don’t get any better than that. And she said, you better get rid of these.

Well, she said it was about the wedding and about yoga. Remember?
33,000.
But I have a feeling the 650,000 will do very nicely.
If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. This will go on for years, folks.
If she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her special interests will rob our country blind.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we are all about to say. When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to drain the swamp.
I keep telling people, I hated that expression. It’s so hokey. And then one group heard it and they went crazy. Another group heard it. Then we had a big, big rally in Florida, they went crazy about it. And now I love it. It’s true. It’s very accurate.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.
The great state of Pennsylvania has lost almost 40% of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by crooked Hillary Clinton.
One of the most amazing statistics that I’ve ever heard – something I thought was a typographic error – America has lost, not 700, not 7,000, which I assumed that might be, has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill Clinton and Hillary backed deal.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
Tyco laid [off]…[inaudible] workers in Harrisburg and Carlisle and moved their jobs to China, India, and Mexico.
TE Connectivity laid off 102 workers in Middletown and moved their jobs to China, Vietnam, and Singapore.
Dura Bond Pipe laid off 145 workers and moved their jobs overseas.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving Pennsylvania.
The theft of American prosperity will end. It’s ending.
If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Pennsylvania, move to another country like Mexico, which is taking so many of our companies, and then ship their products back into the United States where we will soon have, by the way, a very strong and powerful border, we will make them pay a 35% tax on those products coming in.

Now, what’s going to happen. Right? They’re not leaving. They won’t leave.
And if they do, we’ll make a lot of money. They’re going to pay a lot of tax.
But they won’t leave. They won’t leave.
A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much, much, much better deal for our workers.
We will also immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, another disaster in the making.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, most importantly.
And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes very substantially. You saw that during the debate.
By the way, who won the debates? Who won the debates?
You know, she kept saying she is working on debate prep for weeks. She’s always working on debate preps.
You know, if you’re doing this stuff for 35 years, why does she need so much debate prep?
Like a week and a half before the debate, she was at her home. Why wasn’t she leaving? She’s working on debate prep.
I felt guilty. I mean, how much did you have to learn? Right?
That was just an excuse to rest and go to sleep. Okay? Believe me.
By the way, two friends of mine and I have to tell you they are incredible – I don’t even know where they are. This is a hard one to find.
I’ll tell you what. You know, a great, great couple Barbara and Hugh Rone [sp]. Do you know about their son, Riley, Riley Rone? Where are they? Are they around here some place? Where are they?
Come up here if you can. Do you mind? Do you mind?
Tell the Secret Service – believe me, they’re okay to come up. Right? That would be the surprise of all time.
These are incredible people. Their son recently passed away in a horrible accident. He was the biggest supporter I had. Young guy, beautiful guy, the most popular person there was. And he was just very special.
…Riley. Riley was their son. As much as some of you like Trump, I like you more than you like me, if you want to know the truth.
This boy was our biggest fan. He loved our country. Believe me. He loved our country.
Say a few words about our boy. Okay?

Oh boy, I didn’t expect that. So we’ll dedicate this evening to Riley. Okay?
That takes courage.
Hard to go back to the economy after that. Right?
Thank you very much. That was so beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
We will unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal.
We will put our miners back to work. We will put our steel workers back to work. We know what’s happened to your state with respect to miners and steel workers. And Hillary wants to do the opposite. We’re going to put them back to work. We’re going to put them back to work. They’re going to be happier than ever before.
And my infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like – did you ever hear a place called the Pennsylvania Turnpike? Need some help. Need some work. We spent all these trillions all over the place, we can’t fix our potholes in the Pennsylvania Turnpike or anywhere else.
Our country’s going to hell. Unbelievable. You look at our infrastructure of this country.
We will also rebuild our inner-cities. They are so bad. The African-American community, the Hispanic community, people living in the inner-cities have been treated so unfairly.
They’ve been run for sometimes more than 100 unbroken by Democrats and people with the wrong ideas.
They’re unsafe. You’d get shot walking to the store for a loaf of bread. They’re unsafe.
They have the worst education.
They have no jobs. No jobs. You look at unemployment of African-American youths. You look at it – it’s 58%. 58%.
And I say give me a chance. I will fix it. I actually go, what the hell do you have to lose? Believe me. I will fix it. We will all fix it together. It will be a great thing. We have to fix it. We have to fix it.
We’re going to fix it. We’re going to fix the inner-cities.
We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees and that’s over and above the thousands and thousands and thousands that are right now pouring into our country under Obama.
Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalization into your schools and throughout your communities. You know what’s happening.
When I’m president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.

You know, just in standing and watching and looking at this incredible spirit right up to the tiny corners of the room with thousands and thousands of people outside watching big screens, anybody want to switch places with them?
I say isn’t it sad that the most dishonest people there are – the media – don’t spin the cameras and show this crowd? Isn’t it sad?
They never show the crowds. They never show the crowds.
Today, Obama had a protester and the protester – if I have one, they’re immediately picked out. The protester, even though the protesters we just found out through WikiLeaks were paid $1,500 to go into our rallies and be violent. Right?
And in Chicago, they badly hurt policemen. They badly hurt other people. Although our people can take care of themselves very nicely. I will say.
But whenever there’s a protester, the only time those cameras move, the only time they pick out a protester because that’s a negative thing. Right?
And yet, Obama today spoke in front of a much smaller crowd than this. Right? And there was a protester. And the protester that likes us. And what happened is they wouldn’t put the cameras on. They kept the cameras on Obama.
And I said that’s strange. You saw it today on television. Right?
He was talking. The protester’s screaming at him. Really screaming at him.
By the way, if I spoke the way Obama spoke to that protester, they would say, “He became unhinged. He became – “
You have to go back and look and study and see what happened. They never moved the camera and he spent so much time screaming at this protester and frankly it was a disgrace.
And he shouldn’t be there and he shouldn’t be there to start off.
But I’d love to see them spin the cameras. I’d love to see them go outside and see – I mean, this arena’s massive – but I’d love to see them go outside and see the thousands and thousands of people that are outside.
Look at the cameras. They don’t move, folks. They don’t move. They don’t move. They’re right here. They don’t move. They don’t want to show it, folks. They don’t want to show it.

But they’re not happy. They see the polls. We’re leading in Ohio. We’re leading in Iowa. We’re leading in North Carolina. We’re leading in New Hampshire. We’re leading in Florida.
And I actually think we’re leading in the great state of Pennsylvania.
I love you people.
But they don’t show. Watch. You go home, you won’t see the crowds. They won’t talk about them.
You go see Hillary’s, she’ll have like 300, 400 people. What a joke. What dishonesty.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a great wall. Build a great wall.
Who is going to pay for the wall? 100%.
They don’t know it yet but they’re paying for it.
Honestly, they do know it. They do know it. And it’s all right.
I met two months ago with the president of Mexico – good guy. We’ll work things out. We’ll have better relationships with Mexico. We’ll have better relationships with China.
Look at China. We have a trade deficit with China of almost $500 billion a year. Think of it. China. Think of it.
And yet they taunt us with building a massive fortress right smack in the middle of the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doing that.
We have no relationship with China, and yet, they rip up.
I’ve had a great relationship with China. The largest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan and so many other things.
We’re going to have a great relationship with China.
And I’m not angry at China. I’m angry at our leaders for allowing so many different countries to rip us off. That’s who I’m angry with.
All right. That will end.
Does anybody have doubt that that’s – and we will have – honestly, we’re going to have a better relationship with most of these countries. The reason is they don’t respect us.
They don’t respect Obama. He’s like a cheerleader. He’s jumping up and down all over the place for Hillary. He shouldn’t be doing that. He shouldn’t be with her. He’s got to be working.
You know what? We’ll be better off if he doesn’t work. He’ll only make bad deals we’ll have to unscramble. We’re better off.
We received our first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officer – 16,500. First time they’ve ever endorsed a candidate.
It’s just been reported that as a result of our open borders, violent cartels have spread into all 50 of our states.
More than 90% of those arrested are here illegally. Thank you very much.
They’re killing innocent Americans, threatening schools, and totally destroying communities.
A government that will not protect its people is a government that is unworthy to lead.
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands and thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminals to go free because their home countries wouldn’t take them back. They’d bring them to their countries and very intelligently, these countries would say, “We don’t want them. They’re murderers, drug kings. They’re gang members.” So they’d bring them in and the country would say, “We’re not taking them back. Bring them back to your country.”
And she was head of State Department, and she said “Bring them back.”
Believe me, I promise you this. Never once, never once will we be bringing anybody back. Never once. Never once.
And if they come back into our country, one year in jail. And if they come back a second time into our country, five years in jail. And then 10 years in jail. And they won’t be coming back. They’re not going to be coming back. Very few. Believe me.

When they know that – you what we do? We capture them over and over and over and we let them go.
There have to be consequences, folks. There have to be consequences.
Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant and this immigrant, this illegal immigrant was deported at least five times.
Not going to happen anymore, folks.
Thousands of Americans would alive today if not for the open border policies of Obama and Clinton.
This includes Americans like Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I’ve gotten to know during the campaign.
Josh was a student in a high school. Good student. Good kid. Everybody loved him. He was murdered at the age of 17.
He was tortured, strangled, beaten to death by an illegal immigrant, and then his body was set on fire. Everybody wanted this guy out. They wanted him incarcerated.
In July, right here in Pennsylvania, an illegal immigrant with a previous deportation record, horrible record, raped a young child.
The illegal immigrant had been arrested for aggravated assault on numerous occasions. But he was set free. He was set free. Everybody that knew him said, “Please, please don’t set him free.”
He was set free by weak, ineffective policy. By weak, ineffective leadership.
A Trump administration will end this vast nightmare of violence. We’re talking about thousands and thousands of incidents.
We will protect American lives. We will cancel all federal fundings to all sanctuary cities. We will stop illegal immigration, deport criminal aliens, and dismantle every last criminal cartel that’s in this country.
And by the way, our local police who are so incredible, they know every one of these people. They know everyone. They have to put up with them everyday.
When we win, you will finally have a government on your side fighting for your community and protecting your family.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice.
That means new resources for the nearby Army War College that will train the next generation of Army leaders.
Now, Mosul, I talk about Mosul because I can’t believe it.
First of all, we had Mosul. It was the way we got out. Whether you wanted to be in Iraq – we shouldn’t have been in Iraq. But we had Mosul. It was all done.
But then Clinton and Obama did that crazy get out. They got out the wrong way. So they took Mosul back.
Now, four months ago, I started hearing, “We’re going to take Mosul. We’re going to take Mosul.” And I say whatever happened to the element of surprise? Right?
So we had Mosul but we essentially gave it up. Now, we’re taking it.
By the way, just so you understand, I’ve never even said this before. Who benefits by us getting us out? You know who’s going to benefit? Iran. We’re not going to benefit because Iran is taking over Iraq. We handed that back to them along with one of the dumbest deals I’ve ever seen – the $150 billion back.
The $1.7 billion in cash that we gave these people. A terrorist – number one terrorist nation. $1.7 billion in cash and now they feel emboldened and they go and they harass our ships and they take our 10 sailors and humiliate the sailors and humiliate our country.
Not going to happen with – he said never happen with you. I promise it will never happen with me. I promise you that. I promise you that.
But just to finish…Mosul. We want to go into Mosul. This was four months ago. Because we want to get ISIS leaders. We think they’re in Mosul.
Well, if you want to get them, you don’t talk about it. Right? You don’t talk about.

You go get them and have the news conference later. Wouldn’t that be nice?
I always say whatever happened to the element of surprise.
So four months ago I heard it. Then three months. Then two months.
In the meantime, they’re buried in there. They’re using human shields.
We have no choice but to take ISIS out. We have to because they’re chopping off heads. They’re doing things – when you read the history books, not since the Medieval times has anything like this happen.
And it formed during this period of time of Hillary Clinton. Now, Hillary is saying we will get ISIS. What the hell did she let it start for?
Now, ISIS is in 32 countries all around the world and what a shame it is.
We have people in leadership that are grossly incompetent. We’re going to change it and we’re going to change it fast. Okay?
I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.
You saw that last night. Right near Fort Bragg. Great place. Great people.
We had 21,000 people last night. We had more people last night than I have tonight. Although if you include the people outside, we may have them. We may have them. I’m not sure. I think if you include outside, we may have more than that.
Hillary Clinton brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, and she empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS all across the world.
Hillary and our failed establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we don’t win and now the Middle East is in far worse shape and far more danger that it ever was before.
They dragged us into foreign wars that make us less safe, shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, and they’ve our borders wide open at home. We’re go into wars and we set strong borders. But at home, we have no borders.
We send our troops to foreign countries to defend their borders but our politicians refused to defend our borders.
That will change on Nov. 8th. Believe me. That will change. Nov. 8th. That will be a big day.
A Trump administration will never ever put the interests of a foreign country before the interest of our country. Ever.
To the people of Pennsylvania. To all of the people in the United States, I say from now on it’s going to be America first. Believe me.
To all Americans I say it is time for change and time for new leadership. We need it.
We just cannot have four more years of Obama because that’s what we’re getting if we do this.
It’s four more years. It’s ISIS running rampant. It’s no borders. It’s bad jobs.
You see the jobs report – how horrible. You saw what what happened just two days ago. The jobs report was a disaster. And they’re all bad jobs because our good jobs are disappearing.
It’s no good folks. Four more years. We can’t have it.
Can you imagine – can you imagine? I saw these great men, these great admirals last night. These great generals. These are great people – strong, smart. I saw these unbelievably brave recipients of the Medal of Honor.
And I say to them, how would you feel to have Hillary Clinton as your leader? And they’re wonderful Americans and I refuse to tell you what they said but it wasn’t good. Believe me.
Can you imagine? These people taking orders – these great people taking orders from her?

Bad judgment, remember that.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and maybe bigger, and Hillary’s going to raise taxes.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
Protect religious liberty. I will do that. I will do. It’s time.
Rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans. Our great people. They’ve been horribly, horribly taken care of.
Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We’re bringing our education local.
Support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
And today in New York City, two policemen as you know were horribly shot. It goes on and on and on.
We’re going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege.
And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
It’s time to cut our ties with the failed politicians of the past.
Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We are the movement of the future.
This is a great movement. This is a movement that’s never happened before ever in the history of our country. Ever in the history, there’s been never anything like it.
And I will say and I understand how this system works. I understand the system, I guess, as well as anybody understands. I was on the other side. I was enjoying it very much.
I also love our country and it can no longer work that way. It’s not fair. It can no longer work. We won’t have a country.
And boy oh boy, so I went from being an insider – did I ever become an outsider. Wow. I became a serious outsider.
But we’re all outsiders and that’s the way we like it. We’re all outsiders.
But it’s a movement like it’s never been seen before. And even the dishonest people back there and the pundits, they say – some of them – say it’s the single greatest political phenomena that they’ve ever seen in this country. And it is.
And that’s why we cannot do anything that’s going to stop it. We have to get out.
Pennsylvania, you are so important. Everyone talks – Pennsylvania. If you win Pennsylvania, you’re going to win. Pennsylvania!
Now, we’re doing great all over this state, and I really believe I’m going to do well in Philadelphia because that’s where I went to school specifically. I love Philadelphia. Don’t disappoint us, Philadelphia!
We’ll do great things for Philadelphia.
But there’s so much for Pennsylvania that’s so important, and get out Nov. 8th and vote.
We’re fighting for every parent who lost their child to gangs and drugs and violence.
We are fighting for every community whose jobs have been ripped out and shipped to other countries.
And we are fighting for every American who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
I’m asking you to dream big because with your vote and can you believe this? We’re just four days away. You will get the change you’ve been waiting for for your entire lifetime.
And folks, I’ll tell you what, it’s not going to happen again. It’s not going to happen in four years. It’s over. This is it. He’s just saying it’s it.
This is it, folks. In four years, it’s going to be a whole different – it will never ever happen again. It’s our last chance. Our last chance.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again.
Thank you! God bless you, everybody. Go out and vote. Thank you!
###

…People maybe 4,000 outside, should we wait for them to come in? I agree. Let’s get going.
You people were there from like two in the morning, they tell me. So, we’re going to get going.
Thank you very much. And we don’t need Jay Z to fill up arenas. You know, we do it the old fashion way. We do it the old fashion way, folks. We fill them up because you love what we’re saying and you want to make America great again. That’s about it.
And I actually like Jay Z, but you know the language last night, oh. Ohh.
I was thinking maybe I’ll just try it. Should I use that language from one of them?
Can you imagine if I said that?
So, if he used every word in the book. I won’t even use the initials because I’ll get in trouble. They’ll get me in trouble.
He used every word in the book last night.
And by the way, in Hershey, Pennsylvania, last night, we had an arena. We had 27,000 people show up. Maybe they couldn’t get in.
Far more than Jay Z had with their free tickets. Free tickets. Far more. And Beyonce.
And I like them both.
But he used language last night that was so bad. And then Hillary Clinton said, I did not like Donald Trump’s lewd language. My lewd language.
I’ll tell you what, I’ve never said what he said in my life.
But that shows you the phoniness of politicians and the phoniness of the whole system, folks.
In three days, we are going to win the great state of Florida, and we are going to win back the White House.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that the residents of Florida, I’m sorry to tell you this, are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike. And I know what it is.
I say this to everybody. I just don’t’ want to destroy the spirit in the room. It’s going to be a massive hike. So, congratulations.
It’s not going to matter because if we win, I’m throwing it out anyway so it doesn’t make a difference.
But get ready. You’re going to have a big, big, big hike. Hopefully, it won’t make a damn bit of difference.
In the great state of Arizona, where I was just a couple days ago, where I’m going, premiums are going up by more than 116%. They’re going to go higher than that.
Over 90% of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insurer. And think of it, they’re losing their insurers. Over 90% of the counties.
And remember, and most of you were there, almost all of you felt this whole movement right from the beginning when we came down for the primaries. Right?
We won 66 out of 67 counties. 66 out of 67. Florida is just a place I love. My second home. I’m here all the time.
I might know Florida better than you do. But it’s my second home. But we won 66 out of 67 counties. That’s never happened before.
We almost won that last one too.
And I see maybe even more enthusiasm right now than I did then. I think there’s more enthusiasm.
You see the tremendous lines of people and they have Trump hats on, Make America Great Again, but they have Trump hats on. And they have buttons, they have shirts, they’re in line.
And you see NBC and you see these people, total phonies. The most dishonest people. And they’ll say, it looks like it’s going. There was like one line was like 100% Trump brigade. No, maybe they’re in disguise. Maybe they’re wearing button, shirts, and Trump hats but they’re actually going to vote for crooked Hillary. Do you think that’s possible?
But you see these lines and the woman says, yes, I’d say it’s very evenly based.

So the great state of Texas, you heard. You heard. Can you believe all these people at ten o’clock in the morning? Great. They got here at two o’clock in the morning, my dear.
So, the great state of Texas, an incredible place. I go there. We have these massive crowds and about two weeks ago I was hearing the, the phonies in the media and they’re going very, very strongly “Texas in play!”
Oh, we have a Hillary Clinton person. Are they paying that person $1,500?
Get them out please. Get them out.
I must tell you that Bernie Sanders’s protesters had much more enthusiasm and spirit than this one.
The problem with these Hillary protesters is that my people make all the noise. They are always going “There, there!” You can’t even hear the person.
By the way did you see, before I get to Texas, did you see yesterday Obama screaming and screaming and screaming?
Just like the way he runs the country nobody listens to him. Screaming! Okay?
And I wanted to see the protesters because these lying, thieving people back there, the media, they don’t ever show, they don’t ever show my crowds.
I was saying to them the other night. Where is she? I was saying “You’ve got to show… you’ve got to turn the cameras”. They just every one of them right up my face.
The only time they will turn the cameras is when there’s a protester because that’s a bad thing. Right?
So, last night Obama had a protester, and they wouldn’t turn the camera to the protester. It’s the first time I’ve ever seen that. They kept it on him but it was bad because he kept screaming the same thing over and over again, and nobody would listen to him.
But they had the great state of Texas.
So, about three weeks ago, they’d say, they would do these phony polls. All right? Some of the polls are great. I only really acknowledge them if I’m winning. So don’t worry.
And by the way, we’re winning in a lot of polls. We don’t have enough time to talk about it now. There’s too many of them.
Oh, I love those signs “Black for Trump”. Oh, oh, that seems to be, that seems to be the big surprise so far of this election.
Thank you, fellas. That’s so great. Thank you. That is great. Thank you. Thank you very much. That’s a great honor. Believe me, that’s a great honor.
So, they kept saying the great state of Texas is in play.
Now, you know it’s supposed to be sort of a Republican stronghold, not supposed to be in play.
But I said, “Oh man”. I called my people. “What’s going on in Texas?” Because I was just there. We had a crowd 20,000, 22,000, 15,000. Every time I went. We had these massive crowds.
They had a line that went so long that local media is much more honest then these dishonest guys.
The local media, and they were showing the line went all the way and literally it went miles.
So, then I get back and three weeks ago, “Texas is in play. It’s even”.
And I said that’s bad news. Man, I don’t want to lose Texas. That’s bad news.
One little problem. One little problem. We’re killing them in Texas. We’re killing them.
A guy gets on two days ago. A man named Sid Miller [sp], don’t really know him, wearing a big beautiful white cowboy hat. In fact, I want to find out where he got it. It’s pretty nice.
And he said, you know, you folks, you’re giving it all wrong. These lines are four, five, six blocks long. We’ve never had anything like this in Texas. And let me tell, you all those folks, they’re all voting for Trump. They’re not voting for anyone else.
So, Texas, we’re, we’re just, we are absolutely doing great in Texas.
But we’re doing great in New Hampshire. We’re doing great in Iowa. We’re doing great in Ohio.

Ohio, just left, going back again soon.
Doing phenomenally well in North Carolina.
I think we’re going to win Pennsylvania. I think we’re going to win Pennsylvania. We’re right there.
I saw that they had… even is not like my thing, like you know we’re even. But they had me way down in Pennsylvania. Then last night, I am looking and 2 to 3 polls came out. Uh, Jim, Trump, he’s even right now in Pennsylvania too. This is not good.
You can see that ‘cause they protect Hillary. I don’t understand it. I don’t understand why.
When this is all over with, I’m going sit down with the dishonest media. I’m going to have an honest talk. Why? What is she going to do?
She’s, she’s a dishonest person. She has no energy.
You know, you need energy to help this country.
Like for instance, I am going to be doing 5 or 6 of these everyday. You need energy here, folks.
She goes home and she goes to sleep.
You need a lot of energy. So we’re going to be doing at least five of these today. The arenas are all packed all over the country. And we’re going into different locations.
We’re going into what they used to call ‘Democrat strongholds’, where we are now either tied or leading.
We’re going to Minnesota. We’re going up to Minnesota, which traditionally has not been Republican at all, and we are doing phenomenally. We just saw a poll.
We’re going to Colorado, where we’re doing phenomenally well.
We’re doing well everywhere. We’re doing well in places that they don’t believe. They’re saying what’s going on?
Anyway, with Obamacare, getting back to the boring subject. It’s almost a waste of time talking about it because when we terminate it, all we’ll do is say it was a bad experience for the American people. You know.
Premiums are surging because of Obamacare. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting.
And deductibles are going through the roof, some as high as $15,000, some higher than that.
Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. Going to make it much more expensive.
You know what they’re going to do? Her and Obama? They’re going to show you and they don’t care what it takes. They’re going to show you that it works. They’re going to listen to Trump – never give up. Okay? They’re going to show you.
Okay, we don’t want to be shown. I’ll tell you what, it is catastrophic.
I’m asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and have health care for every family in Florida and great health care.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
As you know, the FBI, and I give them a lot of credit because they are fighting forces that they’re not supposed to be fighting, has re-opened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.
They’re also conducting a second criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton’s pay for play corruption at the State Department. You see what’s happening there.
It has been confirmed that the 650,000 emails they discovered by accident. Can you believe it? 650,000 emails. Oh that’s a treasure trove. That is going to be a lot bad emails in there.
They discovered it on Anthony Weiner’s. Think of it. Can you imagine it? Anthony Weiner probably has every classified email ever sent. And knowing this guy he probably studied every single one in between using his machine for other purposes.
Including brand new emails not previously turned over to authorities, likely including some very, very classified information.
However, the reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying very and hard as they can to protect their angel, Hillary.

Remember Bill Clinton just happened when he was in Phoenix Arizona, just happened to see her plane. The Attorney General’s plane.
Oh, there’s the Attorney General. Oh what an unbelievable – He was gonna play golf. It was about 110 degrees. He was gonna play golf.
Oh, I was going to play golf. Let me say hello. Hey! Let’s get together.
Boom. I thought it was 39 minutes. Turned out to be 45 minutes.
So went on to the plane on the tarmac and right on the tarmac, and they had a meeting for 45 minutes right before she was supposed to issue her judgment on Hillary.
And maybe Bill. Bill could be a target. Who knows? Because of what’s going on.
So she met with him for 45 minutes. They discussed golf. That’s about 2 minutes. They discussed grandchildren. Give them 5.
The rest of the time, what do you think they discussed?
I would say like, I hope you’re going to be a part of our administration.
What do you think?
What a disgrace. I’ll tell what, our country has never been in a situation like it’s in right now. Never been. So dishonest.
It’s a rigged system, folks. I’ve been saying it. It’s a rigged system.
And it begins with the media. Because the media rigs it. The media rigs it.
Did you see all those reports?
Where the New York Times is sending them things, and they’re saying, listen, we’ve got this reporter essentially 100%. This is friendly stuff.
Where other reporters are sending them stories to check, “Do you have any change?”
This has never happened to me. Man. Actually, I used to get good publicity until I decided to run.
Now, I think I have, and they even say, actually, the Times said, one of the writers of the Times said, “We don’t care. We don’t care if it’s fair or not. It’s so out of control. We don’t care.”
It’s the greatest pile-on in the history of politics, and that’s okay.
I used to be on the other side though. And I did very well. But I also love our country and it was time. It was a time. We had to do something. It was time.
But that’s a big part right there. A big part of the rigged system.
Remember John Podesta said Hillary Clinton has bad instincts. Right?
And I say to people, I’d fire him.
If he was saying bad things, he’s said so many bad things about her and he’s her top person. He knows her well.
And I don’t want a president with bad instincts, and she does. All you have to do is look at her record.
Bernie Sanders says that she’s got bad judgment.
Hillary created an illegal server to shield her criminal activity. That’s why. There’s no other reason.
And she figured she was above it because she figured that the Department of Justice will never do anything to get in her way. Okay? It’s a rigged system.
The Department of Justice, if that happened to anybody else, they would’ve been in jail two years ago, folks. Okay? What she did.
Then she illegally destroyed – and this is, this is, forget about what happened last Friday. I’m talking about the past.
Forget about – that’s all gravy. Whatever happened.
What she did in the past is so bad.
She destroyed 30,000 – remember this, 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. The key word being after. And made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.
If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis.
Remember, if she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her special interests and her donors would rob this country blind. I have no doubt about it.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take back our country from the special interest.

I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we, we are about to say.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to drain the swamp.
They’re not happy, folks. They’re not happy. There are a lot of unhappy people around.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs that have been stolen. Stolen by either very stupid politicians or corrupt politicians, meaning special interests get them to do whatever they want to do.
Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary.
America has lost 70,000 factories. That’s such a hard number to believe, 70,000, since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
There has never been a country that’s lost jobs like we do.
So stupidly. So easy to solve. So stupidly.
Goodrich Lighting Systems –
We will, I promise. I promise.
Goodrich Lighting Systems laid off 255 workers and moved their jobs to India.
Baxter Healthcare Corporation laid off 199 workers and moved their jobs to Singapore.
Esler Laboratories laid off 181 workers, and moved their jobs, surprise, to Mexico.
Tremendous, tremendous jobs, and it’s getting worse and worse and worse.
We have with some of these countries, Mexico in particular. I have a great relationship with Mexico. I’ve met with the Mexican resident three months ago.
Believe me, I will build a wall. Don’t even think about it. We’ll build a wall. Don’t worry about it.
And you know what? The harder they fight us, the higher it goes. Okay? I promise.
No, but I met with the president of Mexico. Look, and he’s a good guy, good guy. Good meeting, all of that.
Look, we have a one lane highway goes right into Mexico, takes our jobs, takes our money, takes our wealth, takes everything. And we get unemployment and we get drugs.
Not going to happen anymore, folks.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and will stop the jobs from leaving the great state of Florida. That I can tell you.
The theft of American prosperity will end quickly and effectively.
If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Florida, move to another country, and then ship their product back into the United States, we will make them pay a tax of 35%.
Problem solved. Problem solved.
99%, and you never heard this talk before, you know. They give them loans, “Oh, we want you to stay.” They don’t even talk to most of them. You know, most of them just leave. Nobody talks to them. We’ll talk to them.
And at first, we’ll be very nice. Right? First, we’ll be very nice and respectful. And when they tell us no, no, no, then we’ll say, okay, here’s the story, folks. Let’s not be nice anymore.
And you know what’s going to happen with that tax? They’re never going to leave this country. They’re never leaving. They’re never going to leave this country.
A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers.
We will immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, another disaster in the making.
That Hillary Clinton said is the gold standard. Yeah, it’s the gold standard for other countries, not for us. The gold standard for the countries that want to be a part of that deal.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we’re going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We’re the highest taxed nation in the world. One of the main reasons that they’re leaving.
We will massively cut taxes for the middle class also.
And by the way, don’t hear it from me. Just look at it.

Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes substantially. Highest taxed nation. She wants to raise taxes substantially.
That’s not going to happen.
We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations and use that money to invest in America.
That includes repairing so many of Florida’s problems.
Thank you. Thank you.
We’re going to repair so many of Florida’s problems and everyone’s problems. Including the Herbert Hoover Dike, which is big problem, and the Florida Aquifer.
And we’re going to protect the everglades.
We’re going to do all of the things, but we’re going to have so much money left over, folks.
You know what we want? You know what we want?
We want really beautiful, clean air. Right?
We want really crystal, crystal clean water.
And we want safety.
We don’t need to give hundreds of billions of dollars away. We have no idea who’s getting this money. Giving it to the United Nations. You know what that’s called? Giving it to an open pit.
You know how political the United… can you imagine as these guys are doling out that money?
No, no, we’re going to keep our money here, and we’re going to take care of our infrastructure, and we’re going to take care of our environment. And we’re going to lower taxes.
We will also rebuild our inner cities. The African-American community has been treated terribly. Terribly.
That’s why I’m so honored to see those signs. And I’m telling you, that’s, that’s turning out to be the story of this election. The African-American vote.
Watch, we watch. They’ve been treated very unfairly.
African-American and Hispanic people living in the inner cities. There’s no.
Oh, you like that Hispanics, huh? How many Hispanics do we have here?
And by the way, that’s a big story.
You know, as you know, the Cubans just endorsed me. They gave me the Bay of Pigs Association Award.
We’ll be making a much different deal than they made with Castro, believe me, folks. They’re very happy.
But that’s another story that’s turning out to be very big. The Hispanic vote. It’s turning out to be much different than people thought.
But the African-American community, the Hispanic community, the folks living in the inner cities, crime ridden.
You can’t walk to the store and buy a loaf of bread. You get shot.
The education is the worst. And there’s no jobs.
We’re going to fix the education. We’re going to bring back jobs. And we’re going to bring back safety.
And I say to the Hispanic community living in the inner cities, to the African-American community, I say, “What in the hell do you have to lose?” I’m going to fix it. I’m going to fix it. I am going to fix it.
You know, the Democrats have been running that whole thing for up to 100 years, unbroken. And they come in and they say “We want your vote. We want your vote.” And then you give them the vote.
You know this, fellas, right? You know that. They know.
You give them your vote, and they just disappear for four years. They say “See you, folks. See you in four years.”
And then they come back, again and again.
We have to show them, it doesn’t work that way anymore.
And they’ll never be able to do – they’ll never be able to do what I do.
Look, I’m here. I’m doing five or six of these a day. And Hillary goes home and she goes to sleep.
If she wanted to do it, which she doesn’t, she doesn’t have the energy to do it. Believe me.
We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees pouring into this country over and above the thousands and thousands and thousands that are already coming in.
You want to see a problem? This will be the great Trojan horse, modern day version.
Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into our schools and throughout your communities.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend immediately the Syrian refugee program.

And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
You look at what happened in France. You look like what’s happened in Germany.
No.
And we all have big hearts. We’ll build safe havens. We’ll have the Gulf states put up the money.
We owe – what do we owe? $20 trillion. We owe $20 trillion. Think of it.
But I’ll get the Gulf states – they have plenty of money. They have so much money, they don’t know what to do with it. They just have to be told nicely. Right? They’re gonna put up the money.
We’ll build safe havens in Syria but we can’t have this, folks. We have enough problems. We don’t need these kinds of problems.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And as we said, yes, we will build a great wall.
We received the first ever endorsement issued by America’s I.C,E. and Border Patrol Officers.
It’s just been reported that as a result of our open borders, violent cartels have spread into all 50 states.
More than 90% of those arrested are here illegally. Aren’t you shocked? 90% think of it. 90% are here illegally.
Thank you darling. I love you too. It’s so nice.
Oh, look, a future construction worker. Look. Look at the baby he’s so cute. Give me that baby.
Future construction worker.
They did a great job. Wow! That is a great beautiful baby. Congratulations.
That’s an early Trump fan. Right? That’s an early United States fan.
Anyway, back to the basics. After going through that, I hate to say this.
But these terrorists are killing innocent Americans, threatening schools, and destroying our communities.
A government that will not protect its people is a government that is unworthy to lead.
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminals to come into the country, go free, and wouldn’t send them back to their home countries.
When they did their home countries very, very intelligently said, “We don’t want them. Take them back,” and we would never force them in.
And I promise you when we take these killers and gang members and drug lords back to their countries, they will be accepted gladly by their country. Okay?
“Thank you so much for bringing this killer back Mr. Trump. We totally appreciate it.”
They’ll say, “President Trump, thank you, sir. We very much welcome. We’re so so happy – Mr. President, we’re so so happy to have our drug lords back, to have our killers back, to have our gang members back. Thank you, Mr President, on behalf of” – I won’t use the name of the country.
Hillary supports total open borders and the end of your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Fransico where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant that got deported. This was a man that was probably deported more than five times.
Thousands of Americans would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Barak Obama and Hilary Clinton.

And by the way I’ve said it, this guy is campaigning full-time.
She can’t campaign for herself. Nobody shows up to her meetings. The only way she gets them to show up is when she has a star come. That’s the only way. The other way she gets 500 people, 400 people.
And by the way, the cameras never show that.
Can you imagine if I had a small crowd? There’d be headlines all over the world,
Trump, you know, not doing it, right? But she has these little crowds show up. It’s a big problem.
Look, she can’t do more than one or two a day ‘cause she has no energy. But she can’t do it because they can’t get any people.
But Obama goes and campaigns for her. He ought to spend time in the Oval Office getting jobs, defeating ISIS, strengthening up our border.
Among those killed, Americans like Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I’ve gotten to know during this campaign.
Josh was a student in a high school, great student. He was murdered at the age of 17. He was tortured, strangled, and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant who should have never been in our country. And then his body was set on fire.
You ought to look at The Remembrance Project. These people are amazing people. These are people that suffered so much.
Last year, right here in Florida, 17-year-old Starlet Pitts [sp], her boyfriend, and her mother were viciously stabbed to death in their Lehigh Acres home by an illegal immigrant.
The killer had been convicted of assaulting a police officer and was wanted for double murder and robbery. But he was released from custody, enabling him to commit these and other horrible crimes.
And the people that knew him begged that he be incarcerated or begged that he be thrown the hell out of our country. And the Obama administration, with their weak policies, refused to listen. Gaff.
A Trump administration will end this nightmare of violence. We will protect American lives. We will cancel all federal funding of sanctuary cities. Very important.
We will stop illegal immigration, deport every last criminal alien, and dismantle every criminal gang and cartel threatening our great citizens.
When we win this election, you will finally have a government on your side, fighting for your community, and protecting your family.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. Greatest people on earth.
Modern aircraft from MacDill. And we’ll have to do this. Anybody? MacDill. We’re going to have beautiful, beautiful new – you know, right now, our fighter jets – some are so old they can’t get parts. They don’t make them anymore. 18, 19 years old. They did a big documentary about it.
We’re going to take care of those brand new, beautiful jets out of MacDill. Okay?
I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. I actually heard we picked up about five today.
And I want to thank the coach for getting up here and talking to you people. What a great coach.
And Joe, and your attorney general. You have so many great people.
All of the people that got up and spoke, I want to thank them. They’re speaking all over the country. They’re speaking all over the country.
Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, and she empowered Iran.
They’ve been empowered. They’ve been emboldened.
We gave them $150 billion, and they hate us. But now they’re strong. We’ve created them. We’ve – They were ready to die. They were to come back and make any deal we wanted, and we took them out of the ashes. And we made them, perhaps, a world power, not just a regional power.
All Hillary Clinton’s thinking. Bad judgment. Bad instincts.
And she unleashed ISIS all across the world.
During the debates – did I win the debates? Did I win the debates?

You know, I was a little worried about the debates because for a week and a half, I’d hear she’s not going out of her house. She’s doing debate prep.
I said wait a minute. How can you work that – I mean, you’re supposed to know this stuff. Right?
You know, I mean, she has a lot of experience. That’s the one thing she has. She’s got a lot of experience but it’s all bad experience. It’s the experience of losing.
But she kept doing debate prep. Right?
And I felt guilty. I said, yeah, I don’t want to sit. What am I going to do debate – you mean, 10 hours a day for a week and a half? I can’t do that.
We’re supposed to know this subject. Aren’t we? We’re supposed to know this subject.
Anyway, she did debate prep. I don’t think it helped her very much.
Hillary and her failed establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we never win.
By the way, we fight. We keep fighting. We fight, fight, fight.
And I always say General Douglas MacArthur, General George Patton, what are they doing? They’re spinning in their graves. They can’t believe it.
Mosul – we go into Mosul.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will be attacking Mosul in four months from now. Now that people at Mosul – you know, these guys are tough and they’re smart, in all fairness.
So the ISIS – one of the reasons we’re going into Mosul is we want to get the ISIS leaders. We think they’re staying in Mosul and we want to get them.
Well, before the announcement is over, they’ve gone. Whatever happened to the element of surprise? The element of surprise? What a group of losers we have.
And now it’s a very tough battle. They’ve dug in. It’s much tougher than they thought.
No, we need different thinking in this country, folks. They should have quietly kept their mouth shut, quietly, quickly, and viciously go in and then have a news conference when it’s over a week later. Right?
And I’m convinced they only did that for political reasons. They thought it was going to be a great quick victory. It wasn’t. It’s a disaster. They thought it was going to be a quick victory.
And you know, Hillary’s running and then she’ll get credit. Except for one problem. We already had Mosul. So we gave it up because of the way they got out and then ISIS was formed. ISIS is now in 32 countries
But during the debate, I watched and she’s saying we’re going to fix our tax code.
Well, why didn’t you do it?
Because all of her people are doing the same thing. We’re all doing the same thing.
And we’re going to fix our tax code. We’re going to do this. We’re going to do that. We’re going to fix this.
And I kept saying, you’ve been there for 30 years. Why didn’t you do it? It will never happen.
They’ve dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, shipped our goods and our wealth, and our companies to other countries, and they’ve left our borders wide open. So we have no borders and yet we’re over fighting for countries that a lot of people in this room have never heard of. And we want a border. We’re fighting to they have a border but we don’t protect our own border.
That will change on Nov. 8th.
A Trump administration will never ever put the interests of a foreign country before the interest of our country.
From now, it’s going to be America first.
To all Americans I say it is time for change. It is time for new leadership.
And in closing, I want you to think about –
Thank you, folks. I just see a sign that I love. Let me see that. Let me see. Let me have this. Let me have it. I love that sign. It’s true. I love that sign!
I love all the signs – women for Trump, blacks for Trump, Hispanics for Trump.
Thank you.

I just found a second mike. I’m probably being wired or tapped here.
It’s – that’s got to be the Justice Department doing that.
Where’s this mike – I’m saying to myself where the hell did this second mike come from?
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan. Even bigger. She’s going to raise your taxes.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation – such a big thing, such a big thing.
Cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
We are going to protect religious liberty.
We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans like they’ve never been taken care of before. They’ve been badly treated. That won’t happen.
We already have a plan for the veterans and they love it and we have overwhelming support from the veterans. Our great people – we don’t take care of them.
We will provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We will bring our education local.
We will support the men and women of law enforcement.
We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege. We have the endorsement of the NRA – National Rifle Association.
And I have to tell you, these are great people – Wayne and Chris and all of them. They love this country. They love this country. They gave me the earliest endorsement they’ve ever given to a presidential candidate. We’re going to save our Second Amendment. Great people.
And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
It is time to cut our ties with the failed politicians like Hillary of our past.
Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future.
And they’ve never seen a movement like this, folks. They’ve never ever seen a movement like this. There has never been anything like this in this country’s history. And we have to close it out on Nov. 8th or sooner.
By the way, who’s voted?
All right, that’s about 80%. 20% – leave right now. Vote. Okay. Just vote before the 8th.
The numbers are looking good. That I can tell you.
Did you guys vote? Did you vote?
Blacks for Trump. You voted. Right? Good. Good. Thank you.
We are fighting for every parent who lost their child to drugs and crime and gang violence.
We are fighting for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out of our country and shipped to other faraway lands. It’s happening all the time.
And we are fighting for every American who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
I’m asking you to dream big because your vote – think of this. We are just three days away – do you believe that?
We’ll bring about the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life. This will be a very important day.
And I know that the vote that you cast will be the most important vote of your life because our country doesn’t win anymore.
We will start winning.
We will knock out ISIS. Believe me. We have no choice. We will knock them out. We will win at the borders. We will start winning again.
We’ll win so much you’re going to get sick and tired of winning. Is that possible? You’ll say, “Please, Mr. President, you’re winning too much. Let’s take it easy.”
We are going to win so much. You’re going to be so proud of your country, and hopefully, you’re going to be proud of your president.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much everybody! Thank you. Thank you. Get out and vote. God bless you everybody. God bless you. Get out and vote.

…That’s fantastic. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you everybody. Thank you very much.
First of all, we made a great choice in picking Gov. Mike Pence. Didn’t we? Didn’t we?
Thank you. Thank you.
What a group! Mike, this is big by any standards. Do you agree? Look at it.
And here’s the good news. There are thousands of people outside trying to get in. Do you believe what’s going on?
So it all began for me in New Hampshire. It’s the first state we won.
Remember the promise I made? We will stop those drugs from pouring in, poisoning your children, poisoning everyone else, and they will work very hard to get people off that addiction. It’s going to happen. We’re going to do it. I said I was going to do it. And we’re going to do it.
So I want to thank everybody in New Hampshire. Thank you.
Also, my family was here. I said come on. My children were here.
And just Tiffany, Jared, Ivanka.
Now, we know the Pence family. Very, very famous.
And by the way, I just looked at the numbers. Indiana is doing very well. You have done a great job. A great job. Thank you Karen.
Don Junior, Vanessa, Eric, and Laura.
They’ve been such a big part.
And you know, I’ve been reading about all these surrogates going all over for Hillary Clinton but I had my family. I had the best surrogates of all. They were all over. They were all over.
So, I just want to thank you.
Ivanka, maybe on behalf of the family, say a couple of words?
Ivanka Trump:
Well, I was not planning on speaking tonight, but I did want to be here on this last night prior to election day to support my father. I am so incredibly proud of him, what he’s accomplished today. And I know tomorrow will be another great day and then he will get to the real work of making this country great, of working for you – the American people, and he will never, ever let you down. Thank you. We’re grateful. And God bless.
Donald Trump:
So again, go and enjoy it. Let’s go have a good time.
And by the way, we are going right after this to Michigan because Michigan is in play.

And I may get there a little bit late but they’re waiting. We have thousands and thousands of people.
The polls just came out. We’re leading in Michigan.
We’re leading in New Hampshire. We’re leading in Ohio. We’re leading in Iowa. We’re leading in North Carolina.
I think we’re doing really, really well in Pennsylvania.
And I do believe we are leading in Florida.
It’s going to be amazing. It’s going to be amazing.
So I want to thank everybody and folks go ahead and I’ll see you in a little while. I think Mike is going to come with me to Michigan. Right? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much.
Well, you know, we said we want to finish off in New Hampshire because of the incredible relationship I have. But who would have expected this? Right? Who would have expected this?
This is some group.
So, a couple of things. Two people I have a lot of respect for, really like as people, incredible people. And because they’re so important to the area, I thought I would give this information. They’ve told me I can do it. So I will do it.
Tom Brady – great guy, great guy, great guy. Great friend of mine. Great, great champion. Unbelievable winner. He called today and he said, “Donald, I support you. You’re my friend, and I voted for you.”
And I want to tell you, this guy is a champ and he’s a winner and he is a great person.
So I said, “So, Tom, you voted for me. You support me. Am I allowed to say it tonight to this massive crowd in New Hampshire?”
He said, “If you want to say it, you can say it.” Okay?
Tom, that’s what a champion is all about.
And another person very close to Tom, actually, for a lot of reasons. You’ll understand it in a second. I have unbelievable respect for him. Champion in every way.
And I was in the plane and they handed me a letter and it was from Coach Belichick.
And he wrote the most beautiful letter and it was only two hours ago.
So we called back and we said, “Do you think that Mr. Trump could read that letter to the people of New Hampshire?”
And he said, “Absolutely, if you’d like.” He said, “But do me a favor. Don’t read that letter. Let me send one that’s a little bit different.”
So I figured he was going to take all of the good things out. Right? Like most gutless people do. Gutless.
But he’s the opposite. He’s a champ. So he sent me the new letter and it was much better! It was stronger!
See? Most people don’t do that. Most people do the opposite. “Oh gee, I don’t want to get involved.”
This guy is a true champ.
So he writes – Coach Belichick – “Congratulations on a tremendous campaign. You have dealt with an unbelievable, slanted, and negative media and have come out beautifully. Beautifully. You’ve proved to be the ultimate competitor and fighter. Your leadership is amazing. I have always had tremendous respect for you but the toughness and perseverance you have displayed over the past year is remarkable. Hopefully tomorrow’s election results will give the opportunity to make America great again”

“Best wishes for great results tomorrow, Bill Belichick.”
So I just want to – I just want to – it is funny though. When he said I really want to redo the letter, I really did to expect to get a little bit because I understand how most people work. But most people aren’t the coach.
So Tom Brady and Bill Belichick, I want to thank you and go win a Super Bowl or whatever you want to do.
Boy, what a combination. Never been a better combination. But when you know them personally like I do, they’re even better.
Tomorrow, we are going to win the great state of New Hampshire and we are going to take back the White House.
We are going to deliver historic once-in-a-lifetime change.
When the people of this country from Florida to Minnesota, from New Mexico to right here in New Hampshire step onto the voting booth, tomorrow there is one fundamental question for you to consider. Do you want America to be ruled by the corrupt political class? Or do you want America to be ruled again by the people?
I am asking for the votes of all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, Independents, first-time voters and there are a lot of those first-time voters, folks – who are so desperately in need of change.
Can you imagine having Hillary Clinton for four years? Can you imagine?
Hillary Clinton’s only allegiance is to herself, her donors, and her special interests.
My only special interest is to you. Believe me. Is to you. That’s why I’m doing this. That’s why I’m doing this.
The corrupt special interests have stolen your jobs and shipped your wealth to other countries. They’ve betrayed the working class of this country.
Tomorrow, the American working class will strike back. It’s about time.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that Americans nationwide are going to experience a massive double-digit and triple-digit premium hike.
Over 90% of the counties in New Hampshire are losing Obamacare insurers next year. Lots of luck in your negotiations.
Honestly, folks, not going to matter. We’re going to have it terminated. We’re going to have great health care at a fraction of the cost. So it’s not going to matter.
I want you to leave here happy tonight.
Premiums are surging. Companies are leaving. Insurers are leaving. Doctors are quitting. And deductibles are going through the roof.
Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.
I’m asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Hampshire and in our country.
Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Let’s start by getting rid of Clinton. That’s the best.

By the way, did you ever see anything like happening right now? Have we ever seen anything like this?
Four-star General James Cartwright two weeks ago for a tiny, tiny infraction by comparison can go to jail for up to 5 years and might very well.
General Petraeus’s life was destroyed. Reputation totally destroyed for something that was a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. What a shame. What a shame. So sad.
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States.
She threatened national security. She sold her office to the highest bidder.
And then to cover her tracks, she deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That in of itself disqualifies her from running for president. She shouldn’t be allowed to run.
She’s being protected by a totally rigged system. I’ve been saying it for a long time.
Drain the swamp.
Hillary has shown contempt for the working people of this country. Her campaign in WikiLeaks has spoken horribly about Catholics and Evangelicals and so many others. They got it all down, folks, WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks.
And what Podesta said about her? Bad instincts. He said she’s got bad instincts.
And Bernie Sanders said bad judgment. Right?
So do we want a president with bad instincts and bad judgment. I don’t think so.
We’re going to stand up for the Catholics and we’re going to stand up for the Evangelicals.
WikiLeaks just released another debate question. Hillary got another just one hour ago. I said I have to mention it.
You know, if you go to West Point or Annapolis or the Air Force Academy, and if you get the questions to a test, and if you don’t report yourself, they throw you out.
Sad. Sad. To me, it’s one of the bad things.
A lot of my people, they said, “Oh, let’s not talk about that.”
I said talk about it.
Donna Brazile got the questions. Donna Brazile took those questions and gave them to crooked Hillary. All right?
And crooked Hillary didn’t do anything. She took the questions.
And I’ll tell you what, if I were Bernie Sanders, I wouldn’t be too happy.
And she probably did it with me too, but did we win those debates or what? Wouldn’t matter. Wouldn’t matter.
So she got those questions. She never turned them in. Folks, remember, you’re dealing with a very dishonest person.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interests.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear these words from all of us. When we win tomorrow, we are going to drain the swamp.
That is something. That is something.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring our jobs back.
New Hampshire has lost 1 in 4 of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA – a disaster, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary.
Amazingly, America has lost – listen to this – 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.

We are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There’s never been anything like this.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving New Hampshire. Believe me. We will stop those jobs.
If a company wants to fire their workers, leave New Hampshire and move to another country and then ship their products back into the United States through what will soon be a very, very strong and powerful border, we will make them pay a 35% tax on those products.
And you know what’s going to happen? You know what’s going to happen? They’re never leaving. They’re staying. They’re staying.
We will re-negotiate NAFTA, stand up to China, and stop the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We will massively cut taxes for the middle class.
Hillary Clinton is raising taxes very substantially.
We will cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations. Billions and billions and billions of dollars and nobody knows where it goes and nobody knows what it’s used for.
I know where it goes. It goes into a lot of people’s pockets. That’s where it goes.
And we will use that money to invest in environmental infrastructure in the United States of America. If you don’t mind. Right?
And we will rebuild our inner cities and the African-American community and the Hispanic community will love what’s going to happen because the inner cities in so many cases are like living in hell.
Crime is rampant. Horrible. You can’t walk to a store without getting shot.
Schools are terrible, as bad as it gets.
And there are no jobs. We’re going to bring back the jobs. We’re going to fix the schools and make them terrific.
And we’re going to make the inner cities safe. We’re going to make them safe.
And as you know, the Democrats for longer than 100 years in many cases – unbroken chain – have been in charge of the inner cities.
And you know what they want? They want your vote, and then they say, “See you in four years, folks.”
They do nothing.
I will fix the inner cities, and I ask you though what do you have to lose? Believe me. We will do such a great job. What do you have to lose?
And we’ve been doing very well. If you look down in Florida, look at those long lines, we have been doing very well with the African-American community and with the Hispanic community.
And all of the dishonest press, they’re saying what’s going on here? What’s going on?
Among the world’s most dishonest people. Look at all of them. Oh, look at all those cameras.
Look at all of those cameras. Why don’t you twirl the cameras, folks? Go ahead, twirl them. Show the crowd. Show the crowd.
They don’t do it.
And outside you have another 10,000. It was just reported. 10,000.
These are the world’s bad people. They’re dishonest people. They’re very, very dishonest. Not all of them but I would say most of them.
You heard the coach. He mentioned it too. I guess he’s got his difficulties with them also.
Now, they’re very dishonest.
I will be a champion for all Americans against this unfair and corrupt system.
We will become a rich nation again.

But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the United States.
Can’t do it, folks. Can’t do it.
Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism into your schools and throughout your community.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program, and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States, and yes, we will build a great, great wall.
And don’t forget, New Hampshire, I promised you, I promised you – when I won New Hampshire in the primary, I promised you. I said we are going to stop the drugs from flowing. Going to stop them from flowing in.
We’re going to stop the drugs from poisoning your children and plenty of others.
We’re going to build the wall. I was endorsed by so many people having to do with the borders. The border patrol agents, ICE, all endorsed Donald Trump.
Such an honor for me because these are great people who want to do their jobs.
But I promised you that if I got this far – you were the first ones and you were the first ones that really taught me how bad the drug epidemic is.
I met with your police, who are incredible people by the way, and they explained. And I guess it made a big impact on me because I love New Hampshire. I love the beauty of New Hampshire, the trees, the winding roads, the lakes, the rivers. The whole thing. The little streams.
So I meet with people and I’d say what’s your biggest problem. And they’d say heroin. I say heroin?
It made such an impact because it just doesn’t seem to work with the beauty of your area.
But I said we would stop it. We will stop it. 100%.
And then we are going to work on helping the people who are so seriously addicted. Okay? We are going to do it.
Hillary Clinton totally supports open borders. There goes your country. Which means unlimited drugs pouring into your states, pouring into our country.
Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant and deported probably more than five times.
We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities. Believe me. All of it.
We will stop illegal immigration, stop the drugs from pouring into our country, and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our citizens.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We need it so badly now.
This will be a national effort, and a major part of this rebuilding will be the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard. It’s going to be a big part of it, folks, a big part.
We have now the smallest Navy by the way. Does anyone know this? The smallest Navy that we’ve had since World War I.
We’re going to build it back up.
…

I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and the list goes on and on and up and up everyday.
Hillary and our failed establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and that we never win. We never win. We fight and fight and fight.
Like Mosul. We give them four months’ notice. We’re going into Mosul. What about the element of surprise? Remember the old element of surprise?
We are going to be attacking Mosul in four months. We’ll hit them from the rear. We will hit them from the front. We will paratroop in. We will do all sorts of things.
Then three months, they say again. Then two months, then one month, then a couple ago, I’m hearing “We expect to be attacking Mosul next week.” This is smart people. “One of the reasons we’re attacking is we want to get the leaders of ISIS who we feel are staying in Mosul.”
They left after the first mention that we’re going to attack. Don’t these people understand it?
Oh, what a bunch of people we have. What a bunch of people.
I mean, we’ve got a president, all he wants to do is campaign for crooked Hillary. That’s all he wants to do.
You know, he takes that big 747 Air Force One. Those old engines that spew this stuff. Right?
And he flies it all over the place campaigning for Hillary. And then he talks about “Let’s not affect the ozone layer.”
What a joke. What a joke.
And he shouldn’t be campaigning. He should be out trying to get our jobs back, trying to secure our borders, building up our military, stopping our drug problem.
Amazing. Amazing.
And Hillary can’t fill a room.
Look, look at it. This is called filling a stadium and I have no guitar and no piano. Right?
I mean, she gets Jay Z and Beyonce the other night. The language. Right? The language was so bad. People were insulted. They started walking out.
Hillary then walks under the stage, hugs them, hugs them, hugs them, and then she says “Donald Trump uses such foul language.” Give me a break.
Did you hear what he was saying?
And tonight, she has Bruce Springsteen. What they don’t say is this. So they perform – actually in the case of Jay Z they were leaving because some of these people never heard language like that. They started to leave.
So what happens, they come in, listen to the musician, which I think is demeaning to the – it’s actually demeaning to the political process. They’d listen because she can’t fill a room. She’d come here she has – I’m telling you – she’d have 100 people sitting in the first row.
We’re going to have. We have 28,000 people, including people outside. More than Beyonce. More than Jay Z. More than anybody.
And we don’t have a guitar.
What we do have is we all have together a great plan to make America great again. That’s what we have.
And also in all fairness, is there any place better than a Trump rally to be? I mean, really? There’s no place better.
So these politicians have shipped our jobs and our wealth all over the world and left our borders wide open at home.
That will change immediately upon our victory. Believe me, immediately.
Got to go out and vote. Tomorrow is the day. Got to get out. We’ve got to get out and vote.
One thing I’ll say about New Hampshire. I’ve never disappointed New Hampshire but New Hampshire has never disappointed me.
Remember the primaries, they said Donald Trump – you know, those phony polls. These people – oi! They said Donald Trump may not win New Hampshire. I said that’s surprising. I think I’m going to win. I think I’m going to win. And then we won by 18 points with a lot of people. You know, we had 17 people.

You know what else? Right next door, in Massachusetts where they’re represented – oh, oh, now I know why you like Belichick so much and Tom. Tom Brady.
By the way, is there a better reference than Tom Brady and Bill Belichick…? I don’t think so. I don’t think so.
You know, in Massachusetts, we had what 14 people left. They go like this – boom! Boom! Boom!
I think we got 14 left. We got 49.5% of the vote, and these dishonest pundits said Donald Trump has not broken 50%. How do you break 50% when you have 14 people?
But we won Massachusetts. Got more than 49%.
And Massachusetts is represented by Pocahontas. Right? Pocahontas. It’s represented by Pocahontas.
Oh, she’s terrible. She is just a terrible person. Terrible.
You know, Clinton thinks she’s doing herself a favor to use this woman as a surrogate. Everybody that watches her they say she is a terrible human being. She is. Terrible.
So I don’t know who’s going to challenge her but whoever does – you know, I hear a very great baseball player is going to challenge her.
He’s a great. And you know what? He’s a great guy. I don’t know if he’s going to do it but he’s a great guy.
But Elizabeth Warren is terrible. And you know what? She’s a terrible – let me tell you, she’s a terrible senator. Take a look at what she’s passed. Nothing. Nothing.
And in the Senate, everybody hates her. They don’t even want to deal with her.
So I’ll make you a deal. You can have Pocahontas. I’ll take Tom Brady and Bill Belichick. Okay?
And from now on, it’s going to be America first.
To all Americans I say it’s time for change and time for leadership.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We’re going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan, even bigger. And Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially.
We’re going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
He goes out and plays golf so much that he doesn’t have time to convince Congress to go and let’s do it the way it’s supposed to be done. Right? I mean, he’s played more golf than most people on the PGA tour. This guy like he’s in over 300 rounds.
Hey, look, it’s good. Golf is fine. But always play with leaders of countries and people that can help us. Don’t play with your friends all the time.
We are going to protect religious liberty, rebuild our military, and we are going to finally take care of our veterans properly. Our veterans properly.
Our veterans have been very mistreated and I want to thank them for the tremendous support and the military – the tremendous support that I get.
They do polls and it’s like forget it. It’s like I’m not running against anybody.
And our law enforcement has been so great. They’ve been good.
We’re going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We’re bringing our education local.
And we will support the men and women of law enforcement. Great people and save our Second Amendment, which is under siege, and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Think of this. I started on June 16th. Long time ago. From way back.
Can you imagine this?
And now I can say you have one day but it’s no longer one day. It’s like just like tomorrow morning.
Who is going to vote tomorrow morning, please?

I promise you this. I will never ever let you down. I promise you that.
I didn’t need to do this.
You know, I built a great company. One of the great companies. Great, great – some of the great real estate assets in the world.
I enjoyed my life and I was on the other side. You know, I’m criticizing the other side because I understand the other side as well as anybody.
But our country was in trouble and I love our country, and I looked at what was happening, and I’m really happy I did this. I’m really happy I did this. It’s been an amazing experience. And we are indeed going to make our country great again.
You have one day to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country and your family come true.
You have one magnificent chance to beat this corrupt system and deliver justice for every forgotten man, for every forgotten woman, and for every forgotten child in this nation.
Do not let this opportunity slip away. Folks, it’s never going to happen again. Never going to happen.
In four years from now, never going to happen again.
And people are voting that they never saw before, and these are great people but they never saw anybody they wanted. They’re voting in numbers like they’ve never seen in Texas, in Florida. No matter where you look, they’re voting in numbers like they’ve never seen before.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans.
Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Such a great honor. Incredible people. You’re incredible people.
I’m asking you to dream big because with your vote we are just one day away from the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life.
To all of the people in all of our cities and towns, I say these words to you tonight. I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you.
I will win for you.
Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless you! Get out and vote. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Wow! Thank you.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
So you know, we landed at this stop about 12 minutes ago and look at this place. Is this incredible?
And we don’t – we don’t need Jay Z or Beyonce. We don’t need Jon Bon Jovi. We don’t need Lady Gaga.
All we need is great ideas to make America great again. That’s all we need. That’s all we need.
So it’s now officially Tuesday, Nov. 8th.
Did you ever think you’d be hearing a major speech like around close to 1 a.m.? Are we crazy? Is this crazy? It’s crazy.
But you know, we just left New Hampshire where we’re doing fantastically well. We’re up in New Hampshire. We’re up in Ohio. We’re up in Iowa.
We’re up in North Carolina. We’re doing great there.
We’re up in Florida. We’re doing really, really well in Pennsylvania.
I mean, we are doing well. These people – the world’s most dishonest people – the media, they are not happy. No, no, they’re not happy. They’re saying what’s going on.
Today, we’re going to win the great state of Michigan and we are going to win back the White House.
We’re hours away from a once in a lifetime change. We’re going to have real change, not Obama change.
I want to begin tonight by thanking all of you and all of the people in this incredible movement.

You know, it’s a movement like it’s never happened in this country before. It’s a movement that nobody’s ever seen before, even these people.
They talk about it. It’s one of the great political phenomenas. Many of them have said it. Even some of them who truly, truly dislike me. They’ve said this is one of the great phenomenas.
I mean, look at this place at almost 1 a.m. Look at it.
So I love Michigan, and I was the Man of the Year or something like 4, 5 years ago and I came here and I have so many friends in Michigan.
But I came here to get the award. They asked me to make a speech. I made a speech.
And I talked about how Michigan, they’re ripping your auto companies apart. They’re taking your jobs. They’re closing your plants, and they’re moving them to Mexico and other places. But mostly to Mexico in this case.
And I talked about that and everybody liked me in Michigan.
I said but you know we have to do something about it but I wasn’t a politician. But I talked about it and I kept talking about it and talking about it and talking.
And then I see Ford moving a big plant and then Ford just two weeks ago announcing their small cars are going to be produced and made entirely in Mexico.
And it’s getting worse and worse.
And I developed a great relationship with the people of Michigan.
And so the reason I’m here is that I thought New Hampshire was going to be my last speech.
And I heard that crooked Hillary Clinton was coming to Michigan. And I said, let’s follow it up. Let’s follow it up.
And I said there’s no place I’d rather be for my last rally right here in Michigan late at night and full of energy and life.
Boy, do we have energy and life. Wow!
Although this is our last rally of this campaign, it’s almost hard to believe.
We started a year and a half ago. We started with 17 very talented people – governors, senators, Dr. Ben Carson – great guy. A lot of talented people.
And one by one by one, and most of them have been terrific and give us great support. Ben Carson’s one of them as you know.
But who would have thought – and now we have one flawed candidate left to beat. One flawed candidate.
It’s going to be the very beginning of a new adventure because the new adventure we have win. We have to go out and vote. But the new adventure is making America great again. We’re going to do it.
After we win, I’m going to be coming back to Michigan a lot. I’m going to be coming back every time we open a new factory or a new automobile plant.
And we will do it. And we’ll do a lot of expansion. We’re going to do a lot of expansion. I know exactly what to do, folks. We’re not going to lose your jobs anymore. We’re not going to lose your jobs anymore.
We are going to bring back the automobile industry to Michigan – bigger and better and stronger than ever before. You’ve been mistreated.
Michigan now stands at the crossroads of history. If we win Michigan, we will win this historic election, and then we truly will be able to do all of the things we want to do.
They won’t be taking our jobs any longer. They won’t be doing the things they’ve been doing to us.
We’ll end up having great health care, strong borders. We’ll build up our military. We have no choice. We have a depleted military.
We’ll be able to do the things we want to do.
When you step into that voting booth today – it’s now today – there is one core question for you to consider.
Do you want America to be ruled by the corrupt political class or do you want America to be ruled by you – the people?

That’s what it is. By the people, the way it was supposed to have been for a long time. We’ve lost track.
And for Michigan, we will bring back to your automobile production and we will bring back your industry. Wait ‘till you see what we do for Michigan.
I’ve been talking about it for a long time.
Crooked Hillary has not talked about it, folks, she doesn’t know where to begin.
She talks about bringing industry back to New York state when she was a New York state senator.
I’ll tell you. Not only didn’t it come back, look at upstate New York. It’s a disaster. It got worse. People fled. Companies fled. It’s a disaster.
The corrupt politicians and their special interests have ruled over this country for a very long time.
Today is our independence day.
Today the American working class is going to strike back. Finally.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.
It’s just been announced that the residents of Michigan are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike, like you wouldn’t believe.
Not going to matter that much honestly, because we’re going to terminate it. You’re not going to have to worry about it. Okay? Don’t worry.
Now on the hand, if something horrible happens tomorrow, get ready to pay a lot more than you’re even paying now.
But that’s not going to happen. I’m looking at that fantastic young lady right there. She’s shaking her head. No way, no way. Not going to happen. Right? Not going to happen.
No, I don’t think you’re going to have to worry about the premiums.
But with Obamacare, premiums are surging. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting. And deductibles are going right through the roof.
Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. And it doesn’t work. It’s no good.
I’m asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Michigan and throughout the United States of America.
We have to do it. We don’t have a choice.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
So the first thing we should do, let’s get rid of Hillary, okay? That’s probably – that would be a very good first step. That’s a good first step.
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States.
She is being protected by a totally rigged system that I’ve been talking about for a long time. It’s a rigged system.
Now it’s up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box.
And I don’t have to say do it tomorrow. Do it in a week. You’re going to do it today. You’re going to sleep for a couple of hours. Right? Don’t need sleep. You go to sleep for a couple of hours. You wake up and you cast your vote. Then you can go back to sleep or go to work.
You people who go back to work, you people don’t go to sleep. You’ll go back to work. I know my people.
You’ll get about after two hours, you’ll vote, and you’ll go to work.
I know my Michigan people. I know. I have so many friends here. They work. They don’t stop.
We are going to finally close the history book on the Clintons and their lies and schemes and corruption.
We will open a bright new chapter focused on you – the American people.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to  take our country back from the special interests.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear our words – our words – when we say.

You know what we’re going to say? We’re going to win today, and we’re going to Washington D.C. to drain the swamp.
Absolutely. Absolutely.
Oh, you probably heard me say it. Drain the swamp!
Oh, this is beautiful. Isn’t it too bad that the corrupt media never show the crowds? You know, it is like almost 1 a.m. and we’ve had I think they said 18,000 people here. Every corner. Look at this every corner.
And you know what they’ll say? “Donald Trump is speaking before a crowd of people.”
These people are the worst. “He’s speaking in front of a few thousand people.”
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.
The trade policies of Hillary Clinton from NAFTA to China to Korea to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which by the way is a disaster, have raided your factories, crushed your auto industry, and gutted your communities. You know it.
And she’s not – look, folks, honestly, you couldn’t give her a shot. You’re wasting your time. You’re wasting your time.
She’s not going to be able to do the job. She’s not going to be able to do the job. Just look at her record.
But forget her record. Not going to be able to do the job. She doesn’t have a clue.
Michigan has lost more than 1 in 4 of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary. Right? Right?
By the way, you know who I spotted in the audience? Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Rudy Giuliani. He’s got energy – that guy. He’s all over the place going from place to place to place. Got a lot of energy, a lot of this up here too.
America has lost – listen to this – 70,000 factories. 70,000. Not 700, 7,000. 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization – another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There’s never been anything like this. Our jobs are being stolen like candy from a baby.
Not going to happen any more, folks. There are going to be consequences.
There are going to be consequences. When they fire our people – our great people – who have been working for 25, 30 years at these companies, they fire our people. There are going to be consequences. It doesn’t work that way. Not any more.
And the politicians have been working on this problem for 15 years, for 20 years, and it’s so simple to solve.
Delphi laid off 3,627 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico and other countries.
FTE Automotives laid off 166 workers in Auburn Hills – beautiful place – and moved their jobs to Mexico.
Chrysler laid off 5,300 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico, China, and to other countries.
Ford laid off 2,155 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico and many other countries.
Now Ford is moving all of its small car production to Mexico. Isn’t that wonderful?
It used to be that cars were made in Flint and you couldn’t drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in Mexico and you can’t drink the damn water in Flint. What the hell?

Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Is that true though or what?
You know, I have a friend. He’s the biggest in the world at building plants. It’s what he does. He builds plants. If you said build an apartment, he wouldn’t know what to do. He builds plants – the biggest plants in the world. Most sophisticated plants. All kinds of plants.
I said, “How are you doing?” He’s from this country. Loves this country. Loves this whole area. Loves you people. He wants to do them here.
So I said to him, “Let me ask you, how are you doing?” He said “Unbelievable.”
I said, “Oh, that’s good. That’s good. Where are you doing well?” “Mexico.” I said, “What about our country?” “Not so good.”
He said, “Donald, you have to see what we’re doing in Mexico. We’re building some of the greatest plants anywhere int he world.”
And I said isn’t this sad? Isn’t this pathetic?
We’re going to change it around. I want Mexico to build great plants. But we need to build great plants also.
It’s got to be a two-way street, folks. Got to be a two-way street. And right now, it’s a one-lane highway right into these other countries. They take our money. They take our jobs. They build their plants. They build their factories.
We end up with unemployment and drugs. That’s what we end up with. Not going to happen any longer.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Michigan. That I can tell you 100%.
If Ford or another company wants to fire their workers in Michigan and move to another country and ship their products back into the United States, I will pick up the phone myself, if I can because I love it. They don’t want me to do that, folks. I want to do it. It’s so easy. I love doing it. It’s like I’m a natural. But I’ll have plenty of great representatives.
But we – we – I’m going to do it every once in a while. I don’t care. Because I love it.
We’ll be calling the executives at Ford or whatever company it is, and we’ll tell them very nicely that if they want to move their factory or their plant to another country, they will have to pay a 35% when they sell their cars or their products back into the United States through what will soon be a very, very powerful border.
So they’ll pay a tax and here’s what’s going to happen 100%. Nobody’s moving, folks. They’re not going to move. Okay? Just think of it. Don’t worry about it. We’ll build a wall. Don’t worry about it.
A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and if we don’t get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and our companies. 100%.
We will also immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Hillary Clinton called the gold standard. And she lied. Look, she lied.
During the debate, by the way, did Trump win the debate? Did Trump win the debate?
And by the way, he’s here. Did Mike Pence win the debate? Man, was that an easy debate.
It wasn’t easy. It wasn’t easy. But he certainly made it look easy, didn’t he? How good was this guy? Wow.
Honestly, I felt so sorry for Tim Kaine. That was like – that was like a great football playing your local high school football players.
So Hillary lied about it. She said it was the gold standard and we called her in the lie and all of that.
But when you think about it. It is the gold standard. It’s the gold standard for the other countries, not for us, for the other countries we’re doing business with. Can’t do it.
Hillary will pass the TPP. She will absolutely pass it, which will destroy the rest of the auto industry. Believe me.
Well, just mark my words. It will destroy.
They don’t even talk about currency manipulation in TPP, and they didn’t want to because it was taken out because some of our politicians wanted it taken out.

Their number one weapon. They wanted it taken out because the special interests take care of our politicians, folks.
But they’re not taking care of me. I have spent a fortune on this campaign.
And I’ll tell you – I told this to Mike Pence – if we don’t win, because everyone’s saying unbelievable, unbelievable. Doesn’t matter if you win or lose, there’s never been a movement like this.
I said, let me just tell you, stop right there.
If we don’t win, this will be the single greatest waste of time, energy, and money in my life.
We have to win. To do what we have to do, we have to win. We can’t just have something that looks wonderful in the history books in 30 years.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%.
We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary Clinton wants to raise your taxes very significantly.
Think of it. We’re the highest taxed nation in the world and she wants to raise your taxes.
And we will rebuild our inner cities.
I know so much about Detroit. I know so much about the inner cities.
The African-American community, the Hispanic community has been treated so horribly for a long time.
The politicians – in the case of the inner cities – virtually all Democrats for over 100 years sometimes chain unbroken what they’ve done is they come in and they get your vote and then they say see you in four years. “I’ll see you in four years.”
We’re going to fix our inner cities. Right now, they’re so unsafe. You walk to the store to pick up a loaf of bread, you’d get shot. You’d get shot.
You know, in Chicago, thousands and thousands of shootings since Jan. 1st.
The inner cities are unbelievably dangerous. The education is no good. The safety is horrible, and there are no jobs.
And I tell everybody what the hell do you have to lose? I’m going to fix it. We will fix it. We will fix it.
Vice President Mike Pence will be involved, and he’s so enthused about this.
There is potential. We have such potential in the inner cities. The people – I’m talking about the people.
There’s such potential there. We will fix it. Remember that.
We will become a rich nation once again.
But to become a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees pouring into our country and virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world, including regions overrun and controlled by ISIS.
Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities.
If I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country 100%.
We have no choice. We have no choice.
But we all have big hearts and we will build safe havens in Syria, and we’ll get the Gulf states. They have nothing but money. They have nothing but money. We will get them to pay for it.
We owe $20 trillion right now. We’re not going to pay for it. We’re going to get the Gulf states to pay for it. We’ll manage it. We’ll take care of people. But they can’t come into our country. We have enough problems. Okay?
Here in Michigan, you’ve seen first hand with the problems caused with the refugee program, with large numbers of poorly vetted refugees pouring into your state without your knowledge, without your support, or without your approval.
Nobody even knows where people are being placed.
A Trump administration will not any refugees without the support of the local community where they’re being placed.

A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States, and yes, we will build a great, great wall.
So, I just want to ask you one question if you don’t mind at 1 a.m.
Who is going to pay for the wall? 100%.
They don’t know it yet. But they’re going to pay.
No, we’re going to have a great relationship with Mexico. But right now, it’s a one-way street. We can’t have that. We can’t have that. They’re going to pay for the wall.
Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant deported at least five times.
A Trump administration will end this nightmare of violence an end it quickly.
We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens, and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our wonderful citizens.
We’re going to do it easily, quickly.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.
There haven’t been many times when we need it more.
I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and that list just grew a lot larger today.
Hillary Clinton and our failed establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, shipped our wealth overseas to other countries, and left our borders at home totally wide open. That will change when we win the presidency. That will change. That will change.
Has to change. It has to change.
From now on, it’s going to be America first. America first.

And just in summing up, to all Americans I say, it is time for change. It is time for leadership.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.
We’re going to have the largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And Hillary wants to raise your taxes.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
We’ll cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
We will protect religious liberty.
And yesterday, it was Billy Graham’s 98th birthday. Meaning an hour ago. Yesterday meaning an hour ago. But he’s a great, great man and his son, Franklin, has been so amazing.
But I wanted to mention Billy Graham. 98 years old. Amazing.
We’re going to rebuild our military and take care of our veterans who have not been taken care of properly. We are going to take care of our vets.
It’s about time. Believe me, it’s about time.
We’re going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We’re bringing education local.
We will support the great men and women of law enforcement.
We will save our Second Amendment, which is under siege, and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
The election is now. The election is now. Can you believe it? It’s today. It’s today. It’s unbelievable.
You can make every dream for your country and your family come true.
You have one magnificent chance to beat this corrupt rigged system and to deliver justice for every forgotten man and forgotten woman and forgotten child in this nation.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. We’re living in a divided nation. We’re living in a very divided nation. We’re going to be brought together.
Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag. Right?
I’m asking you to dream big. Because with your vote, we are just hours away from the change you’ve been waiting for your entire life.
So to every parent who dreams for their child and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight.
I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you. I promise.
To all Americans tonight in all of our cities and in all of our towns, I pledge to you one more time.
Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
Thank you everybody. Thank you. God bless you everybody. Go to bed. Go to bed right now. Get up and vote. Thank you everybody. Thank you, Michigan. We love you. We’ll be back.

Thank you very much, everybody.
Sorry to keep you waiting. Complicated business. Complicated.
Thank you very much.
I’ve just received a call from Secretary Clinton. She congratulated us – it’s about us – on our victory, and I congratulated her and her family on a very, very hard-fought campaign. I mean, she fought very hard.
Hillary has worked very long and very hard over a long period of time, and we owe her a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country. I mean that very sincerely.
Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. Have to get together.
To all Republicans and Democrats and Independents across this nation, I say it is time for us to come together as one united people. It’s time.
I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be president for all Americans, and this is so important to me.
For those who have chosen not to support me in the past of which there were a few people, I’m reaching out to you for your guidance and your help so that we can work together and unify our great country.
As I’ve said from the beginning, ours was not a campaign but rather an incredible and great movement made up of millions of hardworking men and women who love their country and want a better, brighter future for themselves and for their family.
It’s a movement comprised of Americans from all races, religions, backgrounds and beliefs who want and expect our government to serve the people and serve the people it will.
Working together, we will begin the urgent task of rebuilding our nation and renewing the American dream.
I have spent my entire life and business looking at the untapped potential in projects and in people all over the world. That is now what I want to do for our country.
Tremendous potential. I’ve gotten to know our country so well. Tremendous potential. It’s going to be a beautiful thing.
Every single American will have the opportunity to realize his or her fullest potential.
The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.
We are going to fix our inner cities and rebuild our highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, schools, hospitals. We’re going to rebuild our infrastructure, which become by the way second to none, and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it.

We will also finally take care of our great veterans, who’ve been so loyal and I’ve gotten to know so many over this 18-month journey.
The time I’ve spent with them during this campaign has been among my greatest honors. Our veterans are incredible people.
We will embark upon a project of national growth and renewal.
I will harness the creative talents of our people, and we will call upon the best and brightest to leverage their tremendous talent for the benefit of all. It’s going to happen.
We have a great economic plan. We will double our growth and have the strongest economy anywhere in the world.
At the same time, we will get along with all other nations willing to get along with us, who will be. We’ll have great relationships. We expect to have great, great relationships.
No dream is too big. No challenge is too great. Nothing we want for our future is beyond our reach.
America will no longer settle for anything less than the best.
We must reclaim our country’s destiny and dream big and bold and daring.
We have to do that. We’re going to dream of things for our country and beautiful things and successful things once again.
I want to tell the world community that we will always put America’s interests first, we will deal fairly with everyone – with everyone. All people and all other nations.
We will seek common ground, not hostility, partnership, not conflict.
And now, I’d like to take this moment to thank some of the people who really helped me with this what they are calling tonight very, very historic victory.
First, I want to thank my parents, who I know are looking down on me right now. Great people. I’ve learned so much from them. They were wonderful in every regard. I had truly great parents.
I also want to thank my sisters – Maryanne and Elizabeth – who are here with us tonight. And where are they? They’re here some place. They’re very shy actually.
And my brother, Robert, my great friend. Where is Robert? Where is Robert? My brother, Robert. And they should all be on this stage, but that’s okay. They are great.
And also my late brother, Fred. Great guy. Fantastic guy.
Fantastic family. I was very lucky. Great brothers, sisters, great unbelievable parents.
To Melania and Don and Ivanka and Eric and Tiffany and Barron, I love you and I thank you and especially for putting up with all of those hours. This was tough. This was tough.
This political stuff is nasty and it’s tough.
So I want to thank my family very much. Really fantastic. Thank you all. Thank you all.
And Lara, unbelievable job. Unbelievable. Vanessa, thank you. Thank you very much.
What a great group.
You’ve all given me such incredible support.

And I will tell you that we have a large group of people – you know, they kept saying we have a small staff. Not so small. Look at all the people that we have. Look at all of these people.
And Kellyanne and Chris and Rudy and Steve and David. We have got – we have got tremendously talented up here and I will tell you it’s been – it’s been very, very special.
I want to give a very special thanks to our former mayor Rudy Giuliani, who’s unbelievable. Unbelievable. He traveled with us and he went through meetings. And you know, Rudy, never change. Where’s Rudy? Where is he? Rudy?
Gov. Chris Christie, folks, was unbelievable.
Thank you, Chris.
The first man for senator, the first major, major politician and let me tell you, he is highly respected in Washington because he’s as smart as you get. Sen. Jeff Sessions. Where is Jeff? Great man.
Another great man, very tough competitor, he was not easy. He was not easy.
Who was that? Was that the mayor that showed up? Rudy? Oh, Rudy got up here.
Another great man who has been really a friend to me but I’ll tell you I got to know him as a competitor because he was one of the folks that was negotiating to go against those Democrats, Dr. Ben Carson. Where’s Ben? Where is Ben?
And by the way, Mike Huckabee is here some place and he is fantastic. Mike and his family are – thank you very much.
Gen. Mike Flynn. Where is Mike? And Gen. [Joseph] Kellogg. Over 200 generals and admirals that have endorsed our campaign, and they’re special people and it’s really an honor. We have 22 Congressional Medal of Honor recipients. We have just tremendous people.
A very special person who believed me and, you know, I’d read reports that I wasn’t getting along with him. I never had a bad second with him. He’s an unbelievable star. He’s – that’s right – how did you possibly guess?
So let me tell you about Reince [Priebus]. And I’ve said this – I said Reince – and I know it. I know it. Look at all those people over there. I know it. Reince is a super star. But I said they can’t call you a super star, Reince, unless we win.
Because you can’t be called a super star like Secretariat. If Secretariat came in second, Secretariat would not have that big beautiful bronze bust at the the track at Belmont.
But I’ll tell you Reince is really a star, and he is the hardest working guy.
And in a certain way, I did this – Reince, come up here. Where is Reince? Get over here, Reince. Boy, oh, boy, oh, boy. It’s about time you did this, Reince.
Say a few words. Say something.

Amazing guy.
Our partnership with the RNC was so important to the success in what we’ve done.
So I also have to say I’ve gotten to know some incredible people – the Secret Service people.
They’re tough and they’re smart and they’re sharp and I don’t want to mess around with them. I can tell you. And when I want to go and wave to a big group of people and they rip me down and put me back down on the seat. But they are fantastic people. So I want to thank the Secret Service.
And law enforcement in New York City. They’re here tonight. These are spectacular people. Sometimes under-appreciated unfortunately. But we appreciate them. We know what they go through.
So it’s been what they call a historic event. But to be really historic, we have to do a great job.
And I promise you, I will not let you down. We will do a great job. We will do a great job.
I look very much forward to being your president. And hopefully at the end of two years or three years or four years or maybe even eight years, you will say – so many of you work so hard for us – but you will say that – you will say that that was something that you were very proud to do. And I can – thank you very much.
And I can only say that while the campaign is over, our work on this movement is now really just beginning.
We’re going to get to work immediately for the American people, and we’re going to be doing a job that hopefully you will be so proud of your president. You will be so proud.
Again, it’s my honor. It’s been an amazing evening. It’s been an amazing two-year period. And I love this country.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you to Mike Pence. Thank you everybody.

Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I love that red hat. Thank you, everybody.
I want to thank all of the dignitaries that are with us today. We have a whole host. The mayor, the governor-elect, great people. It’s a big victory for the governor-elect. He won very convincingly so we’re very proud of him.
And you know, Mike has been such a wise decision for me. When people were saying, “I don’t know. How good is he at decision-making?” they always said, “Yep, but he picked Mike Pence. That’s a good decision.”
And everybody loves Mike. He’s become something very special.
I want to thank Greg Hayes of United Technologies because when I called him, he was right there. I wish I could have made the call when they were doing their original decision. But it worked out just as well other than I would have liked to have an answer a year and a half ago.
We had a tremendous love affair with the state of Indiana. Because if you remember during the primaries, this was going to be the firewall. This was where they were going to stop Trump. Right? And that didn’t work out too well.
And it was a firewall for me. It was a firewall. And we won by 16 points, and the election we just won by 20 points – almost 20 points.
And that was some victory. That’s pretty – that’s pretty great. And I just love the people – incredible people. So I got involved because of the love affair I’ve had.
This has been a very special state to us, and I’ll never forget.
About a week ago I was watching the nightly news. I won’t say which one because I don’t want to give them credit because I don’t like him much, I’ll be honest. I don’t like him. Not even a little bit.
But they were doing a story on Carrier. And I say “Wow, that’s something. I want to see that.” And they had a gentleman, worker, great guy, handsome guy, he was on, and it was like he didn’t even know they were leaving. He said something to the effect, “No, we’re not leaving because Donald Trump promised us that we’re not leaving.”
And I never thought I made that promise, not with Carrier. I made it for everybody else. I didn’t make it really for Carrier.
And I said, “What’s he saying?” And he was such a believer. He was such a great guy. He said, “I’ve been with Donald Trump from the beginning, and he made the statement that Carrier’s not going anywhere. They’re not leaving.” I said to myself, “Man.”
And then they played my statement and I said, “Carrier will never leave.” But that was a euphemism. I was talking about Carrier like all other companies from here on in because they made the decision a year and a half ago.

But he believed that that was – and I could understand it – I actually said, I didn’t make it. When they played that, I said, “I did make it but I didn’t mean it quite that way.”
So now because of him, whoever that guy was – is he in the room by any chance? That’s your son? Stand up. You did a good job. You did a great job. Right? That’s fantastic. And I love your son.
Oh, wow! Oh! Put it…Go ahead, put it on. Well, your son is great. And he meant that, didn’t he? He really meant it.
At first I said, “I wonder if he’s being sarcastic because this ship has sailed.” And then I said, it was 6:30 in the evening, and I said, “Boy, the first thing I’m going to do is go there.” And I said, “Do I call the head of Carrier, who’s a great guy?”
But I’ve always learned I’ve got to call the top. And I heard about Greg Hayes. He’s a great executive.
You know, I don’t know if you know United Technologies is one of the top 50 companies in the United States and one of the top companies anywhere in the world. They make many other things other than air conditioners. Believe me. Their list of companies is incredible.
So I called Greg Hayes. I’d heard of him but I’d never met him, and he picked up the phone, “Mr. President-elect, sir, how are you?”
It’s wonderful to win. You know that.
Think if I lost, he wouldn’t have returned my call.
I don’t know – where is Greg? I don’t know – if I lost and called you, I don’t think you would have called me. I would have tried for you, but I think it would have been tough. Right?
…Greg Hayes is sort of nodding, “Yes, you’re right.”
But I called Greg and I said, “It’s really important. We have to do something because you have a lot of people leaving and you have to understand we can’t allow this to happen anymore with our country.”
So many jobs are leaving and going to other countries, not just Mexico but many, many countries.
And China is making so much of our products that we’re closing up a lot of plants.
And I mean, I wrote down some numbers that are incredible but the numbers of manufacturing jobs that are lost especially in the rust belt and the rust belt is so incredible but we’re losing companies. It’s unbelievable. One after another. It’s one after another.
So I said, “Greg, you got to help us out here. We got to sit down. We got to do something.” And I said, “Because we just can’t let it happen.”
Anyway, he was incredible, and he said, “I understand.” And I said, “I wish I made this call a year and a half ago. It would have been a lot easier call.”
Only because your son – you son, whoever the hell your son is, these people owe him a lot. And I just went through – he’s out in the factory – I thought they were all going to be in this room. This room’s not big enough.
Yeah, I know. I don’t know who arranged that one because I had – we just visited 1,000 people in the factory that are going wild in the plant.

But I will tell you that United Technologies and Carrier stepped it up and now they’re keeping. Actually, the number’s over 1,100 people, which is so great, which is so great.
And I see the people. I shook hands with a lot of the people. They’re right behind us working. I guess, what is it? You’re so – you’re making so many air conditioners, you didn’t want to even have them come up for a half hour. He’s a ruthless boss. He’s ruthless. But that’s okay.
You know, I did say one thing to the Carrier folks and to the United Technologies folks. I said the good will that you have engendered by doing this all over the world, frankly, but within our country, you watch how fast you’re going to make it up because so many people are going to be buying Carrier air conditioners.
You know, we’ve had such help here. Bobby Knight, nobody in Indiana has ever heard of Bobby Knight. How great is Bobby Knight? Lou Holtz, Gene Keady, we had such incredible support.
But I’ll never forget it. A friend of mine called up and said during the primary, he said, “You know, if you could get Coach Knight…” And I said, “You know, Coach Knight called me a year ago.” It was a year before I decided to run. He said, “If you ever run, I’m supporting you.” I said, “Thanks, Coach. I just don’t know if I’m going to be doing it.” And then when he said, “If you could get Coach Knight”, I’ll tell you, I got Coach Knight. How good was Bobby Knight as far as we’re concerned in Indiana? Is that right?
We got Bobby Knight. 900 wins. Two championships. Right? Two or three championships. Olympic gold medal. Pam-Am games. And he was unbelievable. He wouldn’t stop. He was just going all over. He was the greatest guy.
We came into an arena. Greg and we had 16,000 people inside and outside. We had, I think, 10,000 outside. It was – and I left – and this was three weeks before the primary, and I left. I said, “How are we going to lose Indiana with this?” I didn’t think we were going to lose and we didn’t. We won big.
So I want to thank all of those folks because they really helped with Indiana and with a lot of other places.
So United Technologies has stepped up and I have to say this. They did it in such a nice and such a professional way, and they’re going to spend so much money on renovating this plant.
And I said, “Greg, say that number.” You know, he said, “$16 million.”
Well, you know, the minimum number is $16 [million]. It’s going to be in my opinion a lot more than that. He said, “Well, I’d rather say the lower number.” See, I’d rather have him say the higher number so I won’t say it. Okay. Just the difference in philosophy. Do you agree? Both are okay but difference in philosophy. But they’re going to spend more than $16 [million]. They’re going to spend a lot of money on the plant.
And I said to some of the folks, I said companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without consequences. Not going to happen. It’s not going to happen. I’ll tell you right now.

We’re losing our – we’re losing so much.
So one of the things we’re doing to keep them is we’re going to be lowering our business tax from 35% hopefully down to 15%, which would take us from the highest taxed nation virtually in the world. It’s terrible for business. To one of the lower taxed. Not the lowest yet but one of the lower taxed.
The other thing we’re doing is regulations. The regulations are, in fact, if I ask Greg and your folks, you would probably say regulations might be worse for you than even the high taxes, which is the biggest surprise of the whole political experience.
I thought taxes would be number one, regulations would be up there some place.
Believe me, these great leaders of industry and even the small business people who are just being crushed. If they had their choice between lower taxes and a major massive cutting of regulations, they would take the regulations. I don’t know how you feel about that Greg.
But I just noticed I wrote down because I heard it, since about six years ago, 260 new federal regulations have passed, 53 of which affect this plant. 53 new regulations. Massively expensive. And probably none of them amount to anything in terms of safety or the things that you’d have regulations for.
Six of eight of the air condition companies right now are located in Mexico. Six of eight. I mean, think of that. And 80% of the supply chain from Mexico. 80% is located in Mexico.
And we’re not going to have it anymore. So we’re not going to have it anymore.
And we like Mexico. We think it’s wonderful. I was there three months ago with the president of Mexico. Terrific guy. But we have to have a fair shake.
We’re not getting anything. We have NAFTA, which is a total and complete disaster. It’s a total and complete disaster. It’s a one-lane highway into Mexico. Nothing coming our way, everything going their way.
And I don’t have to mention who signed it anymore. It’s so nice. I don’t have to mention who backed it anymore. Right? We don’t have to mention that anymore fortunately.
But it’s a one-way street and it’s going to be changed. It’s going to be changed. We have to bring our jobs back.
And when they expand, one of the things that made me so happy is when Greg said that they have over 10,000 jobs that they’re going to be producing in the very near future and now he’s looking to the United States instead of outside of the United States where almost all of those jobs would have gone.
So, one of the reasons I wanted to do this particular conference is that it’s so great. So many people in the other – that big beautiful plant behind us, which will be even more beautiful in about seven months from now.

They’re so happy. They’re going to have a great Christmas. That’s most important.
But also, I just want to let all of the other companies know that we’re going to do great things for business. There’s no reason for them to leave anymore because your taxes are going to be at the very, very low end and your unnecessary regulations are going to be gone.
We need regulations for safety and environment and things. But most of the regulations are nonsense. It’s become a major industry – the writing of regulations.
And that these companies aren’t going to be leaving anymore. They’re not going to be taking people’s hearts out. They’re not going to be announcing like they did at Carrier that they’re closing up and they’re moving to Mexico. Over 1,100 jobs.
By the way, that number is going to go up very substantially as they expand this area, this plant. So the 1,100 is going to be a minimum number.
So I just want to thank everybody. Specifically, I just have to thank the people that I’ve met back stage. Incredible people. The spirit. The love. People are crying. I mean, they’re all crying.
And it’s taken us a little while.
But think of this. I don’t think we even announced we were running when this deal was originally announced. And in the end, what happened is – because that makes it much more difficult. I mean, it’s hard to negotiate when the plant is built.
You know what Greg said? Greg said, “But you know the plant is almost built.” Right? I said, “Greg, I don’t care. It doesn’t make any difference. Don’t worry about it.” “What are we going to do with the plant?” Rent it, sell it, knock it down. I don’t care.
But we’re going to do – and they’re going to do fine with their plant. I don’t know if they’re going to be able to do with an American company but we’ll figure that out.
But where we’re starting is from a much easier place. It’s hard a year and a half ago they’re making an announcement and you know all of that work is done, which is why I have such respect – I would say great business people. They have flexibility.
You know, if you’re hardline, “Well, we’re not going to move”. Flexibility. That’s why they’ve done so well over the years. That’s why it’s a great company because they have flexibility.
But we’re not going to need so much flexibility for other companies because we are going to have a situation where they’re going to know, number one, we’re going to treat them well, and number two, there will be consequences, meaning they’ll be taxed very heavily at the border if they want to leave. Fire all their people, leave, make product in different companies in different countries, and then think they’re going to sell that product over the border, which by the way will be a very strong border.

A very strong border. Believe me.
And I think companies. Oh, we’re going to build a wall.
People are saying, “Do you think Trump is going to build a wall?” Trust me, we’re going to build a wall.
And by the way, people are going to come through that wall, we’re going to have doors in that wall but they’re going to come through legally.
And people are going to come through on workers’ permits to work the fields. We’re going to have people – a lot of people are going to come through but it’s going to be done through a legal process.
But one thing that’s not going to come through is drugs. The drugs are going to stop. The drugs are going to stop.
So I just want to thank all of the people at United Technologies, most particularly you because you are fantastic Greg.
I want to thank and I want you to tell me how much, how many air conditioning units you sold in the last six months from today because I want to say I think it’s going to be a number that even will surprise your folks because of the tremendous good will that you’ve created.
I want to thank all of the workers at this plant. All of the Carrier workers most importantly.
I want to thank my great, great vice president-elect, because I’ll tell you what, one of the really good decisions but I want to thank Mike.
And we’re going to be doing this and if I have to tell you during speeches, they say it’s not presidential to call up these massive leaders of business. I think it’s very presidential, and if it’s not presidential, that’s okay. That’s okay. Because I actually like doing it.
But we’re going to have a lot of great people that can also do it and do it as well as I do it.
But we’re going to have a lot of phone calls made to companies when they say they’re thinking about leaving this country because they’re not leaving this country. They’re not going to leave this country and the workers are going to keep their jobs.
And they can leave from state to state and they can negotiate good deals with the different states and all of that, but leaving the country is going to be very, very difficult.
So I want to thank everybody. We love you folks.
I want to really, really thank the people of Indiana. We had two massive victories in a very, very short period of time. And all of the workers have a great, great Christmas and a fantastic New Year.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

…Thank you. Wow, thank you!
Thank you. So the weather was really bad. Really bad.
And they said, you know, these are great people in North Carolina, they won’t mind. They said they won’t mind if you cancel and made it another time.
And I said, “What?” And they said, “We have a big crowd but they won’t mind just because the weather was so terrible.”
So I said, “You’ve got to be kidding.”
So we’ve been driving for two hours. We landed like in a long ways but there was no way that we weren’t showing up tonight. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
We couldn’t land at your local airport. We landed a long ways away.
Let’s put it this way, the drive was about three times longer than the flight.
But we made it. That’s all that matters. Right? We made it.
And I’m here today for one main reason – to thank you, the people of North Carolina, for being so incredible. We want to thank you.
You went out and pounded the pavement. You organized your fellow citizens and propelled to victory a grassroots movement the likes of which nobody – nobody – has ever seen before and that’s beyond our country.
And I want to give a special thank you to the incredible military families, service families, and veterans of North Carolina. And they were great.
You saw what happened with the military. I got such numbers. Oh, those numbers are good. I won’t talk about it. We don’t talk about numbers. We bring people together but boy, were those numbers good.
And our veterans. Do we love our veterans? We love our veterans.
And your state’s legacy of service is an inspiration to us all. North Carolina’s produced many of the finest soldiers, airmen, sailors, and marines the world has ever seen. So true.
Our men and women in uniform represent the absolute best of us. We must follow their example working in unison toward a shared goal across every social, racial, and economic line.

They understand that to accomplish the mission we must all be pulling in the same direction. We have to get together.
They know that we must lead no man or woman behind.
These patriots have shed their blood to defend our country in distant field of battle across the Earth. Our debt to them is eternal and everlasting. Amazing people. Amazing people.
And you know we have a very special person here today, who we’re going to introduce. Boy, it’s been such a popular choice.
We salute their sacrifice and we salute the flag they fought to protect. We love our flag. Right? We love our flag.
We love our flag, and we don’t like it when we see people ripping up our flag and burning our flag. We don’t like it. We don’t like it. And we’ll see what we’re going to do about that. Okay? We’re going to see.
Tomorrow is the 75th anniversary of Pearl Harbor. It’s a milestone that marks the ultimate sacrifice of those who wear the great uniform. It’s a reminder too of the value and efforts of America’s fighting men and women who have liberated millions from tyranny and oppression.
Now today our brave men and women are the first in line defense – defense – against radical Islamic terrorism. Words that some people don’t like to say. An ideology of death that slaughters innocent men, women, and children.
We’re going to protect our people. We’re going to protect our country. Believe me.
In every generation, a new threat to freedom arises, and just as we defeated these threats, we faced generations in the past and you understand that, so too will we defeat the forces of terrorism. It’s unseen in many cases but we’re going to defeat that force and we’re going to defeat it strongly and quickly. Believe me.
We will prevail. We stand here today just miles from Fort Bragg, the home of heroes. The home of heroes.
Our special forces at Fort Bragg have been the tip of the spear in fighting terrorism.
The motto of our Army Special Forces is to free the oppressed, and that is exactly what they have been doing and will continue to do.
At this very moment, soldiers from Fort Bragg are deployed in 90 countries around the world. Can you believe that? 90 countries.
Based in Fort Bragg is the 82nd Airborne Division, also known as the All-American Division. We stand in awe of their achievements. We really do.
Not far from here sits 45% of the entire United States Marine Corps at Camp LeJeune. I’ve been to Camp LeJeune. We love Camp LeJeune.
12,000 citizen soldiers through the ranks of the North Carolina Army and Air National Guard.
The National Guard rushed to the scene to help the victims of Hurricane Matthew and so many other catastrophes, and we continue to send our thoughts and prayers to those recovering in its wake.
The military families in North Carolina are a national treasure, and it will be the duty of my administration to ensure that we protect those who protect us.
And I just want to tell you that we are going to be taking care of our veterans, and I’m right now working – these are great, great people and they haven’t been treated fairly.

And I’m right now working on picking the people that are going to be helping our veterans and they are really outstanding. We have some of the great people.
A lot of the people, they’re making great sacrifices to do this but they’re going to be unbelievable. You’re going to see such a change. You’re going to see such a change like you’ve never seen before.
We’re going to protect and help our veterans. Believe me.
That brings me to the second reason that I’m here to discuss our action plan to make America great again beginning with the rebuilding of our military, and we will. We will. You’re going to see it. I’m so looking forward – probably next week, you’re going to see what we’re going to do to take care of our vets. Could be announced. A lot of things are going to be announced. Stay tuned, folks.
Here are the priorities that will guide our military and veterans policy.
All men and women in uniform will have the supplies, support, equipment, training, services, medical care, and resources they need to get the job done incredibly well and perfectly. You watch.
The best care in the world for our veterans both at public and VA facilities as well as the right to see a private doctor when the lines are long – I’ve been saying this for the last year and a half.
You now, people are waiting in line for seven days, eight days, nine days. Longer. He just said longer. Longer than that. And when that happens, you’re going out to see a private doctor, a private hospital, a public hospital – somebody that can take care of you, and we’re going to pick up the bill.
And it’s going to be – not only is it going to be great for you and life-saving in many cases, it’s going to be less expensive. And I’m saying why didn’t they do this in the past? Why didn’t somebody do this?
There’s not going to be any more waiting for our great people in line for weeks to see a doctor.
And finally a commitment to only engage the use of military forces when it’s in the vital national security interest of the United States.
We don’t want to have a depleted military because we’re all over the place fighting in areas that just we shouldn’t be fighting in.
We’re going to have such a strong powerful military. It’s not going to be depleted any longer.
I mentioned equipment previously, and I said equipment. We’re going to have the finest equipments in the world. It’s going to be new. It’s going to be modern. It’s going to be clean. It’s going to be the best. That’s what we’re going to have.
We’re not going to be a depleted military anymore.
From now on, it’s going to be America first. America first.
We will stop racing to topple foreign regimes. And you understand this. Foreign regimes that we know nothing about, that we shouldn’t be involved with.
Instead our focus must be in defeating terrorism and destroying ISIS. And we will.
Any nation that shares these goals will be our partner in this nation. We won’t forget it.
We want to strengthen all friendships and seek out new friendships.
Rather than a rigid dogma, we’re guided by the lessons of history and a desire to promote stability – stability – all over and strength in our land. This destructive cycle of intervention and chaos must finally, folks, come to an end. Come to an end.
We’ve spent at last count $6 trillion in the Middle East, and our roads have potholes all over. Our highways are falling apart. Our bridges are falling. Our tunnels are no good. Our airports are horrible like Third World countries.
We’re going to start spending on ourselves but we’ve got to be so strong militarily like we’ve never ever been before. Remember that. Like we’ve never been before.
We seek harmony and good will among the nations of the world and we believe that respect for mutual sovereignty helps form the basis of trust and understanding.

But we don’t want people taking advantage of us any more. We don’t want countries taking advantage of us any more. We don’t want that. We don’t want that.
We want to be the smart people. We don’t want to be what we’ve been over the last long period of time.
We build up our military not as an act of aggression but as an act of prevention.
We pursue and build up arms not in order to seek conflict but in order to avoid conflict. We want to be strong.
In short, we seek peace through strength.
That is why in my first budget report to Congress, I am going to ask for the elimination of the defense sequester. Depletion. I call it depletion. It gets worse and worse every year. Not for our military.
We will show the world that America is going to be strong again, stronger than ever before.
We’re going to be stronger militarily than ever before, and hopefully we don’t have to use our military. But we’re going to be stronger than ever before.
And there’s rarely been a time when we’ve needed this strength more than we have right now.
But in order to succeed with our defense policy, we must find the right person to lead our Defense Department. Is that right?
This is why I’m proud to formally announce today my intention to nominate Gen. James “Mad Dog” Mattis as the next Secretary of Defense for the United States of America.
Jim is a Marine Corps four-star general, the former commander of U.S. Central Command and NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander.
For transformation, this is going to be so great for us. He led an assault battalion in Operation Desert Storm. And you saw what that happened. That was the way you’re supposed to lead it. There was no games.
Mad dog plays no games. Right?
Led the forces that went after the Taliban and commanded the First Marine Division in Iraq.
He is one of the most effective generals that we’ve had in many, many decades. An extraordinary leader of our time, who has committed his life for his love for our country.
Gen. Mattis is the living embodiment of the Marine Corps semper fidelis. Always faithful.
And the American people are fortunate that a man of this character and integrity will now be the civilian leader atop the Department of Defense.
Under his leadership – right? Under his leadership, such an important position, we will rebuild our military and alliances, destroy terrorists, face our enemies head-on, and make America safe again.
It is now my honor and privilege to welcome to this stage your next Secretary of Defense Gen. Mad Dog Mattis.
Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you, president-elect, for the confidence that you have shown in me. Thank you for the opportunity. I’m grateful for the opportunity to return to our troops, to their families, the civilians at the Department of Defense because I know how committed they are and devoted they are to the defense of our country, the defense of our constitution.
And with our allies strengthened, with our country strengthened, I’ll look forward to being the civilian leader so long as Congress gives me the waiver and the Senate votes to consent.
Thank you very much.
What a great guy. He’s going to be incredible.
He’ll get that waiver. Right? He’s going to get that. Oh, if he didn’t get that waiver, there’ll be a lot of angry people. Such a popular choice.
I believe we’re in the process of putting together one of the all-time great cabinets that has ever been assembled in our nation’s history.
We have some great, great people going to be named over the next couple of days too.
But to accomplish our goals, we must reject the failed approaches of the past. We must move past the tired conventional thinking of Washington D.C.
As Abraham Lincoln said, as our case is new, so must we think anew and act anew.
My plan begins with bold structural reform to create millions of good-paying jobs and even great-paying jobs.
You’ve been seeing what’s been happening over the last couple of weeks and we haven’t gotten there yet. We haven’t gotten there.
We were very proud of saving 1,100 jobs in Indiana with the help of Mike Pence, vice president-elect who’s incredible. We’re very proud of Mike Pence, by the way.
Whether it’s producing steel, building cars, or curing disease, we want the next generation of innovation and production to happen right here in America and right here in North Carolina.
And don’t forget, when we started even four weeks before, they said “Well, we’re going to have an awfully hard time winning Florida, an awfully hard time winning North Carolina. We’re not going to win Pennsylvania. We’re not going to win Michigan. We’re not going to win Wisconsin. We’re not going to win – we’re not going to win Iowa, and Ohio’s going to be tough.” So it started out.
We won Ohio by more than eight points. We won Iowa by a massive number – 10 points. Then we went down, we won Florida. Remember that fantastic evening?
“We have breaking news. Donald Trump wins Florida. Donald Trump wins North Carolina.”
We won so many states. We won 30 states – 32 states. We won so much and we just kept winning, and we topped it off by winning Pennsylvania, winning Michigan. Winning – right? Winning Wisconsin. States that hadn’t been won in 38 years. A lot of states.
And it was a fantastic evening and that’s why we’re here tonight because we want to thank you. We want to thank you, especially.
First on taxes, we’re going to undertake one of the great tax reforms and simplifications in American history.
This includes lowering the tax rate on business from 35% all the way down to 15%. And massive tax cuts by the way for our middle class workers. Massive. The biggest. Biggest since Reagan. Actually bigger than Reagan.
On regulations, we’re going to eliminate every single wasteful regulation that undermines the ability of our workers and our companies to compete. The regulation business is a disaster in our country. We’re going to get rid of all of the unnecessary regulations.
On energy, we will cancel the job-killing restrictions on the production of American energy and pursue American energy independence. We’ll be able to do it.
Honoring the legacy of Theodore Roosevelt, believe it or not, one of our great environmentalists, we will also conserve and protect our beautiful natural resources for the next generation, including protecting lands and anglers and hunters and all of those who enjoy the outdoors like my sons, Don and Eric. They enjoy the outdoors. They enjoy it. They love it.

On infrastructure, I will ask Congress to pass legislation that produces $1 trillion of new investments in America’s crumbling infrastructure, including major projects in our inner cities.
We’re going to take care of our inner cities. We’re going to get the inner cities going again.
Remember I used the expression, “What the hell do you have to lose?” I’m telling you, you’re going to see – and I want to thank – we had – we did so well, so much better with African-American communities, with Hispanic communities than anybody ever anticipated. So much better. Better than it’s taken place in years back, in years back.
So I want to thank the African-American communities, I want to thank the Hispanic communities, and we’re starting to work already. We’re working already.
And the appointment today of Ben Carson has been very popular, very well-received. Dr. Ben Carson. Good guy. Great guy.
We will have two simple rules when it comes to rebuilding this country buy American and hire American. All right? Buy American.
On trade, our trade deficit, now nearly $800 billion a year. We have a deficit, think of it, of almost $800 billion a year.
You always say, “Who’s negotiating these deals?” It’s a chronic drag on the growth and a destroyer of jobs and wealth in our country.
In the month of October alone, our nation racked up more than $40 billion in trade deficit, including a more than a $30 billion trade deficit with China alone. All right? Think we’re doing a good job in negotiating? I don’t think so.
How many business people do we have in this audience that could have done a slightly better job of negotiating? Right? Yeah, you can.
North Carolina’s lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. America’s lost 70,000 factories. Think of it, 70,000 factories since joining the World Trade Organization. Think of it.
So China joins the World Trade Organization and since that time we’ve lost so much. 70,000 factories.
We’re living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There’s never been a jobs theft like what’s happened to this country.
And we just stopped some of it a little bit because we just started. We haven’t really started because we’re going to really start until Jan. 20th. But we’re stopping.
And one of the wealthiest men in the world, you saw it today. Maybe you didn’t. Did anybody see it? Masa? Right? Masa! Great guy of Japan. He’s pledged that he’s going to put $50 billion into the United States because of our victory. He wasn’t investing in our country. $50 billion. 50,000 jobs. 50,000 jobs he’s going to be investing in. He’s a great guy.
A Trump administration will renegotiate our terrible trade deals, stand up to foreign cheating, and defeat every last American – and we will do this. We will defeat the enemy on jobs and we will defend American jobs. We’re going to defend American jobs.
And we have to look at it almost as a war because that’s what’s happened to us. That’s what’s happened to our workers. These are great people, and boy, did they come out to vote.
Remember they said they don’t exist? They existed. They existed. Believe me. And millions and millions of people poured out into the voting booths and they voted big league. That’s why we had these kinds of interest – we had states where we would win by 30 points, 35 points, 40 points. Amazing.
And if a company wants to fire their workers, leave our country, and then ship their products back into our country, there will be consequences. I’m sorry. There will be consequences. Big consequences.
On health care reform, everyday, the law known as Obamacare is destabilizing our health care. Really destabilizing it. Surging premiums and forcing providers out of the market. If we don’t act, the damage will be irreversible. We’re going to act.
That is why we’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare. We have no choice. We have no choice. We have absolutely no choice.
So we’re going to repeal and replace Obamacare and you’re going to get health care at a much lower price with a much lower deductible.

You know, it’s so high now, you can’t – you really can’t – for the most part, you can’t use it.
But we are going to have great health care at a much lower price. So on child care, I’m asking Congress to pass legislation to make safe and affordable child care accessible to all and people like that.
That’s something that Ivanka Trump. Did anybody ever hear of Ivanka Trump? Right? Ivanka Trump has been fighting for for a long time, and I have and I agree with her.
On crime, the murder rate has experienced its largest increase since 45 years. We are going to support the incredible men and women of law enforcement, and we are going to bring this terrible crime wave to an end. Highest in 45 years the murder rate.
On immigration, we will be the administration that ended illegal immigration. We will construct a great border wall, dismantle the criminal cartels, liberate our communities from the epidemic of gang violence and drugs. We will get rid of the drugs that are pouring into our country.
We will ask Congress to reform our visa and immigration programs to protect jobs and wages for American workers.
And we will be appointing very shortly somebody to head up our program and I will tell you this person like Gen. Mattis will do a phenomenal job because we’re going to stop people from coming into our country illegally.
But we’re going to have people come into our country and they’re going to come in by the thousands and the hundreds of thousands but they’re going to come – they are going to come in legally. Right? But by the hundreds of thousands. We want people to come in but they have to come in legally.
To protect our country from terrorism and extremism, we will suspend immigration from regions where it cannot safely processed.
Right now, thousands and thousands and thousands of people are pouring into our country. We have no idea who they are, where they come from, do they love us? In a lot of cases, no, they don’t love us.
A Trump administration will always put the safety and security of the American people first. Remember that. Safety of the American people.
Ethics reform will be a crucial part of our 100-day plan as well. We’re going to drain the swamp of corruption in Washington D.C.
We’re going to. I will propose a five-year ban on executive branch officials becoming lobbyists and a lifetime ban on officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.
We face many, many challenges but this is truly an exciting time to be alive in our country and hopefully to be alive in many other locations because we are representative to a large extent to what’s happening in the world.
The world is looking up to us, but they haven’t been looking up to us much, and they are going to start looking up again. We are going to be good for the world, not just good for our country.

The script to what we’re doing is not yet written.
Remember this has been a great, great movement, the likes of which they have never seen before. The likes of which those folks back there that write the stories – no, no, no, I’ll tell you. And they’re saying it. They’ve never seen anything like this before. It’s one of the great political phenomena of all time.
And we’re going to show them. We’re going to do a great job. We’re going to create a safe country. We’re going to create a prosperous country. We’re going to have jobs again. Great jobs. Not bad jobs. Real jobs. And it’s going to be something special.
And hopefully, they’re going to write the truth.
We do not know what the page tomorrow will read. But for the first time in a long time, what we do know is that the pages will be authored by each and everyone in this room and in our country, by you. It will be authored by you.
Together, we will raise incomes and create millions and millions of new jobs. It’s going to happen. It’s already happening. You see what happened today.
We will re-establish the rule of law and defend the Constitution of the United States.
And by the way, we will be appointing great, great Supreme Court justices. It will be starting very soon with one to replace Justice Scalia. Great man.
We will protect the right of every American to live in safety and peace. We will restore and respect, and we will respect people’s rights. We will respect constitutional rights. And for all America, we will respect our great American flag again. Believe me.
We will heal our divisions and unify our country. When Americans are unified, there’s nothing we cannot do. Nothing! No task is too great. No dream too large. No goal beyond our reach.
My message tonight is for all Americans from all parties, all beliefs, all walks of life. It’s a message for everyone no matter your age, your income, your background.
I’m asking you to join us in this great, great adventurous world that we’re living in. We’re going to make it less adventurous. We’re going to make it safer and better than it’s ever been before.
I’m asking you to dream big again as Americans. I’m asking you to believe in yourselves, to believe in your country, and to believe in your future because we’ve got a great future.
What I’ve seen more than anything else is how great the future of our country is going to be.
And if we do that, then all together we will make America strong again. Stronger than ever before.
We will make America rich again. A lot of people don’t like the sound of that but we need that to take care of our military, to take care of our veterans, to take care of all of the things that we have to. We’re going to be a rich nation again. We’re going to be a wealthy nation again.
We’re going to make America – we’re going to make America like it says on all of those caps, those millions and millions of caps that have been sold all over this country and all of those signs, we are going to make America great again. Greater than ever before.
Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you. We love you. God bless you everybody. We’ll be back soon. Thank you, North Carolina! Thank you!
