We move it to the Convention Center. We have 15,000 people. The biggest one ever. Bigger than Bernie Sanders. 15,000 people showed up to hear me speak. Bigger than anybody and everybody knows it.
A beautiful day with incredible people that were wonderful, great Americans. I will tell you.
John McCain goes, “Oh boy, Trump makes my life difficult. He had 15,000 crazies show up.” Crazies – he called them all crazy.
I said, “They weren’t crazy. They were great Americans.”
These people – if you were to see these people, you – I know what a crazy is. I know all about crazies. These weren’t crazies.
So he insulted me and he insulted everybody in that room. And I said, “Somebody should run against John McCain who has been, in my opinion, not so hot.” And I supported him. I supported him for President. I raised $1 million for him. It’s a lot of money. I supported him. He lost. He let us down. But you know he lost. So I never liked him as much after that because I don’t like loser.
And I believe perhaps he’s a war hero but right now he said some very bad things about a lot of people.
So what I said is John McCain, I disagree with him that these people aren’t crazy and very importantly – and I speak the truth – he graduated last in his class at Annapolis. So I said, nobody knows that – I said he graduated last or second to last – he graduated last in his class at Annapolis.
And he was upset. I said, “Why? For telling the truth?”
See, you’re not supposed to say that somebody graduated last or second to last in their class because you’re supposed to be like friends as very nice.
Folks, I want to make America great again. We want to get down to brass tacks. We don’t want to listen to his stuff with being politically correct. We have a lot of work to do.
Frank, the other day Hillary Clinton got up and she said, “I didn’t like Mr. Trump’s tone.” We have people – Christians – having their heads cut off in the Middle East. We have people dying all over the border where I was right – 100% right. We have all of this like Medieval Times. And she said, “I didn’t like his tone.”
And you know who else said that? Jeb Bush. “I didn’t like his tone.”
What does it have to do with tone? We want results. This group wants results. We don’t want tone.
Everybody’s heard of Norman Vincent Peale? He was so great. He would give a sermon; you’d never wanted to leave. Sometimes we had sermons and every once in a while we think about leaving a little early, right, even though we’re Christian.
Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, Frank, would give a sermon – I’m telling you, I still remember his sermons. It was unbelievable. And what he would do is he would bring real life situations – modern day situations – into the sermon. And you could listen to him all day long.
When you left the church, you were disappointed that it was over. He was the greatest guy…
When we go to church and when I drink my little wine, which is about the only wine I drink, and have my little cracker, I guess that’s a form of asking for forgiveness. And I do as often as possible because I feel cleansed. But to me that’s important I do that.
But in terms of officially, I could say absolutely…I don’t think in terms of that. I think in terms of let’s go on and let’s make it right.
Look, I want this country – this country has great potential. But soon it’s not going to have that potential because we’re being drained by incompetent leaders, by horrible people.
As an example, with the Iran deal, which is a total disaster, we didn’t get our four hostages back. That’s just one aspect of it.
And just this morning and yesterday Secretary [John] Kerry, who’s the worst – the worst negotiator. I mean, he didn’t read the Art of the Deal, folks. So Secretary Kerry, he said very strongly “We didn’t want to bring up the hostages. We didn’t want to complicate our deal.”
…We want our hostages back. How is that complicating a deal? Right?
We gave them money. We didn’t – so he didn’t want to talk about the money. He didn’t want to talk about the hostage.
It was just announced that Iran got one of their leading nuclear scientists back as part of the deal. Just came out this morning.
So Iran, in addition to making an unbelievable deal that’s going to make them one of the great powers, perhaps more powerful than the United States because today it’s about the weapons not about the number of soldiers you have.
…We’re giving them billions and billions of dollars that we shouldn’t be giving them. We didn’t get our hostages back, which is terrible because they didn’t want to complicate – we didn’t want to complicate the negotiations.
And when Obama was asked about that question the other day by Major – he was asked a very simple question – the anger in his face of being asked that question and he said “We didn’t want to complicate.”
How is it complicated? Except for one problem. Iran just got their big scientist back and we just found out about it this morning.
I think we are run by a group of incompetent people and they’re destroying our country.
And just one other thing, nobody deals with politicians more than I did. I’ve contributed to everybody. They did whatever I said. Everybody.
I contributed to Hillary Clinton. I contributed to Bill. I contributed to everybody.
And you know what? I was a businessman. Why wouldn’t I? I don’t have to agree with them.
I know this like with my wedding. I said, “Hillary, Bill, be at my wedding.” They were at my wedding. That was very nice. Okay? Because I contribute.
…But as a businessman you have other things and you have other things to do. So I’m very proud of a record. No politician in my opinion – I know them all, I watch them. They talk about the moon and the sun. The sun will rise and the moon will set. I watch them. People want jobs. No politician is going to get this country back.
I’m sort of a politician because I’ve been dealing with politicians all my life.
If you can’t win and make a lot of money with politicians, you’re not very good. Believe me. I’ve been dealing with them all my life and I don’t think anybody’s dealt with them any better. I know them.
And I know it from the other side. All of the people, like when you see Bush has $100 million and you see Hillary has $50 million that they got, they just announced, those people are controlled by those people that gave them money. They’re lobbyists. They’re special interests. And they’re donors.
And I will tell you that they are totally controlled.
And when Bush has to make a decision – and can you imagine this guy negotiating against China? We have no chance, okay? Who would you rather have negotiating against China? Trump or Bush? You tell me.
But I was always available to my children. And frankly, I’ve said it – I was actually a great father. I was a better father than I was a husband.
And the reason is I was a worker. And you mentioned the relationships and they were very good women. But I was always working. I was working. I was creating jobs. I was building jobs. I was doing everything. Legitimate stuff. I was working and it was very hard for a woman. And I blame myself; I don’t blame anybody else. But it was a work thing. It wasn’t a bad thing.
And it was very hard for anybody to compete against the work and that was not good. I’ve learned that.
By the way, same with Mexico. Love Mexico. Love the Mexican people. Thousands of them work for me. They’re incredible. I just don’t like that the Mexican leaders are ripping off our country because they’re smarter and more cunning than our leaders and our negotiators. You know, between the trade and the border, they’re killing us.
I know the richest people in the world. I know the toughest people in the world. I know these people; they’re brutal and you wouldn’t like them and they probably wouldn’t like you very much. These are brutal people. Great negotiators. Great business people. But not nice people. They’re not the happiest people. They’re very rich. They’re very smart. I would use them to negotiate against Japan…But I will tell you they’re not the happiest people.
The happiest people I see are the people that have great families. Whatever it is, I mean, I don’t know.
And just to take that a step further – and I tell this people all the time – they say, “How do I get rich, Mr. Trump? How do I get rich?” And they have a good family. I tell them all the time and I make this statement because I’ve seen it – those people that have that great family – wife, husband, children, whatever it takes – those are the people that in my life I’ve seen are the happiest people.
A lot of the really successful people are – they always want more, more. They could have $2 billion; they want $6 billion. Then they want to get up to the $10 billion. But they always want more, more. And in the end, they’re not very happy people.
So I don’t know it’s a great thing.
Religion is a very big factor too. I’ve seen people that are – have a great family and they have God and they have church and they love their church. I have friends who love to go to their church and help their church. They’re happy people.
And essentially, Frank, look, when you boil it down, we need a President that’s going to be able to make deals – great deals – because we’re getting killed. We’re losing – our gross national product went down. Our GDP if you look at it – gross domestic – went down in the first quarter. It became negative.
When China goes up 7% or 8%, I saw the other day, China went up 7%. It was like in China they’re going crazy. How can it only go up – we had a negative. Think of it. We had a negative number. It’s unheard of.
GDP goes down fairly substantially. And I think it’s going to continue to go down.
That means we’re getting smaller and yet we have more people many of which pour across our border by the way.
We need somebody that can take our jobs back from China. We need somebody that can take our jobs back from Mexico. We need somebody that can take our jobs back because we’re going to hell. Our country’s going to hell…We’re going to hell and we need somebody that’s going to be able to bring our jobs back.
Look, if I’m elected President, I know everybody. They can’t create jobs like me. Nobody’s going to be close. They can’t negotiate with China like I can negotiate.
And by the way, every single other country in the world, we don’t make good deals anymore.
If I can make the country strong financially, it’s a lot easier for the country morally. I mean our country – you look at what’s going on. We’re in serious trouble.
Our military is – we’ve sent weapons over to our so-called allies and one shot’s fired and we lose 2,300 humvees, armored plated. I mean, we don’t know what we’re doing. We truly don’t know what we’re doing.
If I can make our country really strong, I would focus on the military.
I tell you what I’d focus on the vets. I love the vets. The vets are treated like fourth class citizens in this country.
And that’s part of the morality. These guys went out. These people went out and they fought for us and they’re great people. The best people. And they’re treated so badly.
I’ve been with vets where they say they go to a doctor’s office in one of the places and they’ll wait four to five days in a reception area before they can even see a doctor. That’s morality too and that’s very bad morality.
I think your question is very good but I think they have to go hand in hand because our country’s a debtor nation. We’re in serious trouble. And we’ve got to make us – I know it sounds a little bit rough – we’ve got to make our country rich again. We have to make our country great again.
We can’t let other parts of the world steal our country, steal our jobs, steal our manufacturing.
With that being said, the morality of this country with the right President.
President Obama, I’d never thought he would be a good President because I didn’t think he was qualified. But I thought one thing that he would do, he would be a great cheerleader for the country. He’s been horrible… I don’t know if he loves America. I hope he loves America…
But you know what? I was hoping and I thought – the one thing I thought about him – I saw him speaking in Germany. I saw him speaking. I thought he’d be a good cheerleader for the country. He’s been horrible. He’s been divisive. He’s been horrible.
He hasn’t even called Kate Steinle’s family who got killed. He calls other people. But he hasn’t called the family of Kate Steinle. Why wouldn’t he call her? And this was a man that came over, was pushed over from Mexico. Five different – he shouldn’t have been here. An illegal immigrant. And nobody’s even called her family. Okay?
I think morality and I think success go hand in hand. You don’t have to have one without the other.
