
…We’re doing really well. Iowa’s been amazing. It’s been amazing. We’re doing so well and I love this place and I’m back here all the time and I’m going to be here a lot in January.
You’re going to be so sick of me. You’ll probably say, “We can’t give – the caucus, just forget it. We can’t stand the guy any more.”
No, you’re going to like me and we’re going to be back and we’re going to do a great job for you. Most importantly, we’re going to get to that office and we’re going to do the right thing. We’re going to do the right thing.
So, a few things. A lot – so much has happened.
You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talking border security, which we’re just doing so great with the border security.
We’re going to build a wall. Mexico’s going to pay for the wall. We all know that. But we’re going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but they’re going to come into the country they’re going to be legal, they’re coming in legally, and that’s the way. That’s the way.
And it affects Iowa so much.
So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about repealing Obamacare. Boom. It’s going to be repealed. It’s going to be replaced.
I don’t know if you’ve been seeing what’s happening but Obamacare is a total disaster. It’s dying of its own weight.
And by ’17, meaning he’ll be playing golf and I’ll be working very hard. But ’17 instead you’re not getting the people signed up. There’s been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.
Obamacare’s dead but we’ll terminate it quicker than that.
And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.
Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless you’re close to death, you’ll never going to get to use. And even then I don’t think you’re going to get to use it really.
So, we’re going to take care of that.
And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really – we have the ethanol – where are the ethanol people? Right?
I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but it’s so important. And it’s another form of let’s stay away from OPEC and let’s stay away from that Middle East stuff. It’s so important…
Actually what I don’t understand because the one guy that’s doing pretty good with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and he’s a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he agrees with me. No matter what I say.
I was going to do one really wild but he agrees.
But with the ethanol, really, he’s got to come a long way because he’s right now for the oil.
But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. He’s got to be for oil, right? The oil companies give him a lot of money.
But I’m with you. I’m with everybody. Look, I’m self funding. I have no oil company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you know, they’re representing countries that are ripping off the country, they’re representing companies that are ripping off our country.
All I do is I’m going to be working for you folks. We’re going to do this thing together. We’re going to make America so great again and maybe better than ever before. So important.
So when we first started, I talked about China how they’re ripping us and Japan and Mexico.
Mexico both at the border and in trade. They’re taking so many of our companies. Nabisco’s moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a big plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee – a great state – they took it away at the last moment.
I’m not going to let that stuff. We’re going to do what we have to do, okay?
But I talked about that…and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2.5 weeks ago with Paris, I’m speaking a little bit differently now.

Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. That’s easy for me. That’s what I do.
And we have all the cards. A lot of people don’t know. You know, these politicians they don’t understand we have the cards.
You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. It’s not supposed to be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But we’ll take care of that. We’ll take care of all of that.
What happened is with Paris, there’s a different mindset.
And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me.
Now, maybe it had to do – who knows why? Who knows?
But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever there’s something that I do that’s proper but controversial, they’d say “Oh, now he’s gone. That’s it. That’s the end.”
I won’t go over all of the different things because maybe you’ll change your minds.
But they’d say, “That’s it. It’s over.”
And then they’d come in, “Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week.” I said, “They did?” Because I have to do what’s right. I have to do what’s right.
And you know what? If I don’t make it, I don’t make it.
I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have a great family and I built a great business.
…There’s such spirit…There’s such spirit no matter where I go. You know, I go to Dallas. We have 20,000. 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 people in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is supposed to be…for like a record.
It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good…
…So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, big part of what I’m doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartness.
Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is “Make America Great Again” and I’m adding “Make America Great Again and Safe Again” because we don’t feel safe anymore.
And the problem we have now that we’ve never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. It’s the power. It’s the tremendous power.
You know, 100 years ago, I would have said “Let’s not go.” I said “Don’t go there” anyway. And I said it strongly “Don’t go. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East.”
But the fact is right now, we’re going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates.
And the press – look at all those cameras going all live, all – you know, nobody else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a speech, nobody cares. Look at this.
And don’t worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me. That’s why I’m walking around. I figured I’ll walk around maybe they’ll get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them “Pan the crowd”, they never do.
…I had a crowd 7,000 people last week. More. 7,000 people and in a confined space. They had 3,000 people outside that couldn’t get in. My wife says, “Darling, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there?” I said “What?” She said, “Well, they never leave your face.” They keep it purposely. But I’ll tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you can’t move them, right?
But every time there’s a protester “Well, I’m protesting” and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. It’s true. It’s true. It’s true.
No, I used to think they couldn’t move. You know, maybe there’s something with the crazy computers.
You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. You’d sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, bing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.
Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didn’t think they moved. I figured they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldn’t believe possible.
So, they’re very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of them.

I’ll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, they’re very dishonest.
You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write – so – it’s such misrepresentation. And so I don’t care. I mean, who cares? So I’m saying it right in their backyard. They’re failing anyway. They probably won’t be in business in two years. I think they’re losing a fortune. I think.
You know, it’s funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always do badly.
…I’m only doing this so they don’t sue me but I don’t mind if they do. I hope they sue me because they don’t have enough money to sue me. That’s the good thing.
But I believe and I may be wrong – in fact, I’ll say I’m sure I’m wrong but it’s my opinion that they don’t do it properly because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. I’ll explain it…You know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. “Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one.”
Now, I don’t know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register?
But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly with the Bloomberg polls. I don’t know why.
But we had a great poll come in – CNN last couple of days – where we’re leading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa.
And then we have another coming where we’re doing well.
But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says it’s coming out sometime. I’ll just tell you, watch – “Trump disappears!”
I think we’re going to do so well. I think we’re actually going to even do better. You know, we’re leading in most of the poll. We’re leading in every poll.
Except Iowa there was one poll – there was one poll, Monmouth – I’d never even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I don’t like Monmouth. You know why I don’t like it? Because they always treat me badly also.
But I only like polls that treat me well.
But we’re doing so well. Nationwide, we’re leading every poll by tremendous. We just had one in Georgia – 44%. 44%. Think of that. That’s 44% with 15 people. I’d take 44% if we had three people. I don’t think I’d take it if we had two people but I think I’d take if we had three. But 44%.
CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and we’re at 35% to a small number. We’re killing everybody in every poll. Just one little outlier here.
…Again, I’m sure when Des Moines comes out it’ll be a negative because I don’t believe that poll.
But we are going to win. And I’ll tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so important to me. I could say, “Oh, let’s not do” – I am an evangelical. I am a Christian. I’m a Presbyterian. I’m a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham.
Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He was so incredible. He came out – I don’t know if you all saw the statements he came out with about Trump…He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazing, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, there’s nobody, nobody that I’ve ever seen – Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybody’s gone to his crusades, they were incredible.
But so I think we’re going to do – we’re doing really well with the evangelicals…
And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba in all fairness. It’s true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nevertheless.
I think we’re going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. We’re doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party.
And we’re doing fantastic with all the young and middle. We’re doing great with everybody.
And so it’s very important for me to win Iowa.

Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, “Oh, I don’t care about Iowa. I don’t care.” But I do care. I do care so much about it. That’s why we’re here all the time.
And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. I said, “The people of Iowa can’t be that stupid or the people of the country can’t – “. I’m trying to make a point, right? So I said, “The people of the country can’t be that stupid.” Well, they cut the “country” out so it’s referring to Iowa.
I love you people. Remember that. Remember that.
I was talking about something, and I won’t even mention what I’m talking about because the guy I’m talking about and was actually a very good guy.
But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think we’d run the table. I really do. I think we’d run the table. We’d go right through.
Because we’re leading big in New Hampshire – every poll. Big. Big in New Hampshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. It’s the weirdest deal I’ve ever seen.
And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, “Are you sure about that? Nobody ever called us.” They can’t believe it. And we can get into that but it’s irrelevant.
But we’re leading New Hampshire big. We’re leading in South Carolina like monstrous numbers. We’re leading…Nevada. We’re leading in Texas. We’re leading everywhere. We’re leading big in Florida.
Now, you have Rubio – nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice guy but you’ve got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, you’ve got to go and vote. You can’t be the number one person that doesn’t vote in the Senate. You’ve got to say, “Hey, I’m a young guy. I want to go and vote.” You should stay there a little longer. He’s a good guy. Stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record.
But I don’t know. How’s he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? He’s not doing well. How’s Rubio doing? Not good.
I mean, it seems like a two-person race right now…and it’s an important race to me. So I just want to let you know it’s very important.
So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say we’d just go through. I think we’ll win virtually every state in the Union and it’s over quickly. Over quickly.
…What about the Republican establishment? The establishment’s got a problem, you know. It’s sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Sometimes they’ll go into the hometown of a guy they’re fighting and they’ll say, “You know, we’d never want to get a decision. We go for the knock-out. The knock-out is the knock-out.” Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a lot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and it’s a decision and they say, “Uh, we’re in a problem” and they’d lose the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely – knock out.
So, if we win Iowa, I think we’re going to win everything after that. So I think it’s going to show how important Iowa is.
…I’ll pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, I’ll pledge it, okay? I don’t think I’ve ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowa’s staying right where it is in the chain. It’s not moving. You know, there’s a big move to move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win it’s not happening, okay? You’re staying right here because it’s great. It’s great.

…We just did a big interview with CNN just before this. And you know, Hillary – was Hillary missing today? What happened? She was two hours late. No, did you hear?
Now, I may be wrong. If I’m one minute off, they’ll call me because they love Hillary. They love her. You know why. I don’t know why. Why? I’m trying to figure it. No, I heard she was a couple of hours late. Everybody left. You know what happened? She was sleeping. I’m telling you. She couldn’t get out of bed. She was sleeping. She was sleeping. Was right.

But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken our base. They’ve taken our manufacturing all over the place. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken our money. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen.
I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the world. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, “Donald, I want to help. I want to help.” The smartest people call. We’re not going to use the special interest guy – a donor.
We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. Because again, I’m the only one that’s self-funding my campaign. Everybody else isn’t.
These guys – when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and the donors want.
That’s not going to happen with me.
So, Social Security – we’re saving it. Medicare – we’re saving it. We’re going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart.
Look, Hillary Clinton – you know this story. It’s a crime. She committed a crime.
Now, perhaps – perhaps – somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice Department and perhaps…we’ll have some really good Attorney General that’s going to say “Well, you know”.
Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she committed a crime in my opinion.
Now, she shouldn’t be allowed to run. She’s being protected absolutely. I have little doubt that they’re going to find anything. But they’ve already found it.
I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, “Yes, she violated section so and so”. Just one after another. I mean, actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws.
You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary Clinton did. Over nothing.
So I think she’s going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is whether or not she’ll be allowed to run. She’s being protected by the Democrats. She’s being protected by the President. And that’s why – why do you think she’s going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes along with everything.
I don’t even – honestly in all fairness to her, I don’t think she believes it. But I think she’s afraid he’s going to say, “Listen, I don’t like her anymore. Go take care of her. I’m going to get somebody else.” I’m telling you.
So, the question is statute of limitations. It’s a five year statute of limitations. She’s got a problem. She’s got a problem. In one way, she’s running for her life because I know one thing, if she wins that’s the end of that. Right? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem.

It’s not going to be – you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. It’s got to be beautiful because someday they’re going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that. It’s going to happen. Going to happen.
And it’s going to work. And walls do work.
You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldn’t get environmental impact statements. That’s just shows you.
China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? They’re not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. They’re not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying “We’re not doing business with you anymore.” Their whole economy would – you don’t have to go to war. It’s economics. The whole country would collapse in two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we don’t know it.
But they’re building massive – now, they had little islands. They put the biggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think they’re using Komatsu from Japan…They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine who’s Chinese from China – very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so I happen to like him, okay? – I said jokingly “How long did it take them to do these massive islands they’re building right out of the sea? Boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statements?” He laughed. He said, “What are you kidding me? Nothing.” They say “We will build there.” About two seconds later, you have escavators digging.
So we had a problem with environmental – look, I’ve won many environmental awards. I’m a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. I’m a big believer. Just so you know. Big. And I’ve gotten so many awards for the environment. So I understand the environment; I’ve won many, many awards.
But when you look at how we’re impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped because they couldn’t get an environmental impact statement among other things. They couldn’t get an environmental impact statement.
Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I don’t know. But they actually had people – a lot of people – people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldn’t get it done.
…You know, I said bomb the oil, right? I’ve been saying that for three years. Now finally they started – after Paris they started bombing the oil. I’ve been saying it for years.
You know one of the reasons we didn’t bomb the oil? Obama didn’t want to hurt the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thought a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didn’t want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today.
I’m telling you, folks, we’re being led by stupid people. We’re being led by stupid people.
I’ve been saying not really bomb – I’ve been saying take the oil. I didn’t want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said “Look, we shouldn’t have been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way.”
First of all, we have a president who told them a date. “We’re going to leave on such and such a date.” What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of sudden said, “Wow”, ‘cause don’t believe it. They don’t want to be killed. Okay? They don’t want to be killed. So the enemy said “They’re going to leave on a certain date?” So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. It’s a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq.
So anyway, I couldn’t believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces “We are sending 50 soldiers.”
Okay, first of all, he thinks it’s a good press announcement. It’s not. 50 soldiers – that’s not a lot even though they’re the elite. But those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a target on their heart.
Why does he have to say that for? Why can’t he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? Why can’t he just do that? Why can’t he do that?
Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably don’t even know that but everybody is looking for them and that’s the way it is.
We have people that don’t know what they’re doing.
We used to have General MacArthur – Douglas MacArthur – General George Patton. I mean, these were real people. These were real people.
Today, we have generals that go on talk shows…I saw a general the other day on a talk show. He said – and this was serious and he’s a good man. They’re good men. But you’ve got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have some power over them. He said, “We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness that we’ve been in in decades.” And this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to kill us.
And he said we are in the worst shape we’ve been in many, many decades.
Now, number one, he shouldn’t be saying that because you’re telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldn’t be saying it. We shouldn’t be saying it.
I mean, even if it’s true, you don’t say it. You get it fixed and you do the opposite.
One thing I’m going to do I’ll tell you, I’m going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful – so powerful that nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody is going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, it’s the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying with us right now. It’s the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest thing you can do.

…My sons are really great marksmen. They’re big believers. And I’m a member of the NRA but I’m not such a good shot. But they’re great shots so it’s one of those things.
But if you think about that question. So you know there’s tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. How about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine? …So the people will put three bullets in. I don’t think the bad guys are going to say, “Well, I don’t want to break the law. I’m going to go kill people today but I’m going to put three bullets in.” Right?
These people – and you know I have arguments with them all the time and I’m a practical guy. Honestly, if I didn’t believe this, I couldn’t say it.
So in France or in California, I have a permission to carry, which is a big thing in New York. It’s very hard to get. I have a license to carry.
But in France or in California or in all these places where we see the shooters, right, if instead of having like in France hundreds of people in that room – Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. Nobody has guns. Except the bad guys.
So they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have and they said, “Over here – boom. Over here – boom.” So they killed 128 but many more are dying right now. They’re in terrible shape in the hospitals. They just wipe the place out and they could’ve stayed there for longer. They wiped it out.
Then you had those two sleaze bags from California. The married couple. I saw the press – “The young married couple that did the shooting”. They’re not a young married couple. They’re the worst. They’re sleaze.
…They say “The young married couple”. That’s no young married couple.
So they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be dying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.
But if somebody had guns in there – nobody had a gun…How would you have done if you had a gun? Would you have been firing back a little bit? They’d been in trouble. Right? They would have been in trouble. Believe me. That guy.
So, you know, I went to like an Ivy League college and I have a lot of friends that are against guns and I argue with them. I talk to them. I said, “Okay, we’re in Paris. You have all these places and there’s hundreds of people. Guys walk in with guns and you have no gun. Don’t you think they would’ve been better if they had?” They can’t – they lose the argument but they never change their mind.
So we have to fight for the Second Amendment. It’s so simple. It’s so simple.
And believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always know that the bad ones are going to have the guns and they’re going to have them more so than ever before. So we’re going to protect the Second Amendment if I’m president. That I can tell you.
And by the way, we’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Do you ever notice?
…And by the way, Merry Christmas everybody. Merry Christmas. And happy holiday.
Frankly, I have a lot of friends that aren’t Christian. They like Christmas. Everybody likes Christmas. It’s politically incorrect to say Merry Christmas. But when I’m president, Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays, enjoy yourselves, don’t eat too much turkey. Right?
Okay, so we’re going to say Merry Christmas again folks. We’re going to bring that spirit back.

And I would say that we would certainly have things in mind for Ted, to be honest with you.
I mean, he’s somebody that I can certainly see that because I like him, he likes me. He actually put out a tweet tonight. He said “Donald Trump is” – I think he used the word – “terrific”. That’s a nice word. I mean, whoever hears that?
I can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. Right?

And I’m not. I’m totally in favor.
And you know, it’s a big industry here. It’s a big industry.
You know, if that industry is upset, Iowa’s got problems.
I was amazed. I was here three weeks ago with the group…They were such amazing people…And I learned so much about it. I was in favor of it even before…
…Beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, tremendous numbers of jobs in Iowa. And I said to myself, if Ted Cruz is against ethanol, how does he win in Iowa? Because that’s very anti-Iowa. I don’t know how he wins in Iowa. I don’t know.
No, but I’m totally for it. Okay? Thank you.

Once I said I’m running, they said “What? You’re not supposed to run.”
And then what happened – I ran against all these Senators and Governors. And everyone said “Well, I don’t know.” My wife said “If you run, you’re going to win” because she understands that I like people – I love people and people love me. And she said “You will run but you actually have to go and run. You have to announce you’re running because nobody’s going to believe you’re running.”
And so I didn’t want to announce because I didn’t want to like announce and things didn’t work out and I’m like some of these guys where they’re zero. Many of them zero.
And so finally I said, “Look, let’s – we’re going to do it. We have to do it.”
Just too many things that I watch on television with our president and the decisions that are made – Bergdahl – where we get Bergdahl and they get five killers. We get this horrible, dirty rotten spy – horrible traitor. We get this horrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that they’ve wanted for nine years – the worst killers – and they’re all back on the battlefield.
You know, so many decisions. The Iran deal. The Iran deal. How bad is that? They self-inspect. “Okay, good. We’re not building. We promise we’re not building nuclear weapons.” “Oh, okay. That’s okay.”
And we give them $150 billion and we don’t even get our prisoners back. The whole thing is crazy. So I saw this. And I said to my wife, “Hey, I don’t know if I’ll do well or not. Who the hell knows?”
And it’s a risky thing. And I’ve always heard if you’re a very successful person you can’t run for office, especially for president, and I see it all the time. And the people go after me. I don’t even care at this point. I said, “I have to do it. Now, we’re going to have to do it.”
And I look at it last time with Romney and I didn’t do it and I probably should have because he let us down. I mean, look, he let us down.
That was an election – we had a failed president. Four years ago he was a failed president, just as bad as he is now. It’s true. And Romney let us down. That last month – it was like he wasn’t even campaigning.
I said, “Why aren’t you on Jay Leno? Why aren’t you on David Letterman? Why aren’t you doing it?” And he just didn’t do it. So he lost the election.
So I backed McCain, he lost. I backed Romney, he lost. This time I said I’m doing it myself, okay? We’re going to win. We’re going to win.
But there is an establishment out there. It’s a real establishment. Real people. And they’re people that are used to having their little puppets all over the place. And they’re people that are used to giving donations and having control.
And they’re people that, you know, look when they call me I’ll treat them with respect but I’m not going to be doing bad things if it’s bad for the country. I’m not going to let Ford build a plant in Mexico if I can keep it in Michigan.
And I’m not going to let the car companies and Nabisco and all these people and all these companies – I’m all for free trade. I think it’s great. I’m for it. But it’s got to be smart trade. I’m not going to let them move to Mexico and then sell stuff over the border with no tax, no nothing so we lose our jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come through. How does that help us, folks? I went to the best business school in the world. Believe me, it doesn’t help us. Okay? Trust me.
And we’re not going to make deals like that anymore. We can’t. We owe $19 trillion. We can’t.
So the establishment is not ever probably – look, you know what? In the end, if this country starts humming even the establishment they’ll be saying “Okay, it’s a good thing” because they’ll be beneficiaries also.
But we do have a real establishment and they’ve never seen this happen before.
A writer called up and he said recently – I told this story. I mean, one of the top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and beyond. And he said, “Mr. Trump, how does it feel?” I said, “How does what feel?” “How does it feel? What you’ve done has never, ever been done before?” I said, “What have I done?” “You’ve dominated the Summer of Trump.” Now they call it the Autumn of Trump.
Hopefully, they’re going to call it the Spring of Trump and I want the next Autumn of Trump.
But I said to the writer, “I don’t know what you’re talking about. I haven’t done anything ‘cause frankly if I don’t win I consider this to be a total waste of time.” I’ll be honest with you. As much as I like being with you tonight. Because we won’t be able to do anything.
He said, “No, no. You’ve won even if you don’t win. You’ve won already.” I said, “No, you’re wrong. If I don’t win, I have wasted my time.”
So you know, the point is that the establishment can’t believe it because they’ve never seen it happen before.
…I was on the cover of Time Magazine four or five weeks ago and Time Magazine was going to pick the Person of the Year. Everybody – even my enemies – said “Trump is going to win.” I said, “I won’t win.” They said, “Why?” “I won’t win. Just like I should have gotten the Emmy for The Apprentice for the first three years. I was nominated. I should have.” And I said, “I’ll never win.” I told everybody I’ll never win because I’m not Hollywood establishment.
And with Time Magazine, I said – Bill O’Reilly, who’s a great guy, did an editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has done more than Trump, he should have won.
Now, I’m not saying I should have – yeah, I probably should have in all fairness – but he said “Nobody’s done more” – you know, taking over – what we’ve done has been amazing – all of us together not just me. It’s all of us. It’s all of us. From Dallas and Mobile and Oklahoma. All of us. Because the spirit.
…Well, Merkel got it. Now, Merkel, what did she do? She’s destroyed – I mean, she’s in the process of destroying Germany with the migration.
We have to help the people with the migration. We have to create a safe zone some place in Syria. But I don’t want them coming into this country. I don’t want them because we don’t know who they are. We don’t know who they are. Them with their printing press that now do the forged passports. Okay? You heard about that. So we don’t know.
The bottom line on that – it’s such an interesting question. You’ll know in about a month or two whether or not the establishment has treated me fairly.
But the only thing I can say is this: If I win Iowa, I think it’s over. I said before. Because I think if I win Iowa, New Hampshire is amazing. People are amazing. You would love the people. They would love you. You’d love everybody. The whole country is in love…I call it the noisy majority. It’s no longer a silent majority. It’s the noisy majority.
But if we win like I think we’re going to win because we have such a big league, honestly, it’s not going to matter. They can’t do anything. I don’t care about the establishment. They can’t do anything.
You know, the only way they can do is if I’m a little bit short, if I’m two votes short I have a problem because I’ll have to go into that convention, I’m dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and they’ll make their deals and they’ll have all their money guys around and they’ll be in the backroom making deals.
But if I get the number of delegates, there’s not a thing they can do. And I’ll end up doing fine with the establishment…

You know, I had an uncle who was a professor at MIT who was a brilliant guy…In fact, I just retweeted an article about him today. You’ve got to read it. Okay? @RealDonaldTrump. You have to read it.
When I see somebody like Jeb – no I’ll tell you one thing I respect. He didn’t change his views. He knew he was getting killed on this issue and he didn’t change. And I respect that to a certain extent. But it’s so wrong.
Common Core is a total disaster. We have people – bureaucrats in Washington – telling you how your child should be educated in Iowa and New Hampshire and all of the different places that we go to. It’s ridiculous.
And I go around and I’ve seen the principals. I’ve seen so many students and teachers and professors and principals, and I’ve seen some of the people and the love – even in Iowa at a school – I’ve seen some of the love these parents give to those schools. This is real love. These are smart people. And these are people that aren’t working for a paycheck. These are incredible people…
Remember this: Our educational system is a mess. We spend more money per pupil as a government than any other country in the world and we’re in 28th place. And I mean like double what anybody else pays.
So I want to bring education back to the local areas. You’re going to have parents and you’re going to have unbelievably talented people and they love their kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because it’s so important. And you’re going to be very happy with it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you.

You know, the whole grid is a disaster. Right? The whole country. The infrastructure of our country is falling apart.
And nobody can build like me. It’s what I do. I build. I build.
I’m building on – as you know – Pennsylvania Avenue a big tremendous hotel that I got from the government of the United States. Can you believe it? During the Obama administration a couple of years ago.
But we had the best plan. The GSA is terrific. They’re very good. Actually, they’re very talented people.
We’re under-budget and ahead of schedule. That’s what we do.
When you see these things where they’re building a bridge and it’s going to cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. How about when they build a hospital and it costs $3 billion?
And I look at it – I’m very good – I can look at a building and tell you how much it’s going to cost.
I say “$250 million.” “No, sir, $3 billion.” $3 billion? Think somebody got rich on that one?
So we’re going to stop all this stuff. We’re going to make our country so strong and so wonderful. And we all love it anyways. We love it.
But it’s so sad to see what’s happening. It’s so sad. And we’re going to change it around.

So they’re borrowed up to the hilt and they can’t get jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from China. We’re going to bring our jobs back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.
We’re going to bring our jobs back from South America. We’re bringing them back from Mexico. We’re going to have jobs again. Believe me. We’re going to be manufacturers again.
We’re going to start making Apple computers in this country. What the hell good does it do to make them in China? I want to make them in this country and we have the ability to do it.
So, we’re going to bring our jobs back. Okay?
