
Thanks everybody.
Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are special people.
And you know, we got a boost last week from a place we all remember – New Hampshire – we can’t forget it. Special, special – we love it. And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right? Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you.
And my volunteers – all of these people, volunteers and they travel – and I say “What are you doing?” And now they’re going to Texas and they’re going all over. Some are going to Nevada.
I’ll be going to Nevada. We’re making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta. And then we’re going right to Nevada. And I think we’re going to do terrific there, and the SEC is going to be very, very exciting. We expect to do very, very well.
I want to just say thank you to my family. It’s been not easy for them. They don’t see me anymore. I’m making speeches all the time. And I have a great family. I really have a great family, so I just want to thank all of you.
And Ivanka, you know, we have a hospital ready just in case in South Carolina we’re going to have a baby. There’s nothing wrong with that. It could be any second. It could even be before I’m finished. But you know she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here. So thank you…
We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process. You know Henry [McMaster], right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take him over the governor any time because we won. We won.
He can handle that very nicely. He’s tough. He’s very tough.
Tiffany, Eric, Laura, and Melania.
Melania, say some. Go on.
So, you know, I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits, you know, overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, “Well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out, if you add their scores together, it’s going to equal Trump.”
These geniuses – they’re geniuses – they don’t understand that as people drop out, I’m going to get a lot of those votes also. You don’t just add them together.
So I think we’re going to do very, very well. I think we’re going to do very well.

I also want to congratulate the other candidates, in particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job. They did quite well as I understand…But I just want to congratulate the other candidates.
There’s nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. It’s tough. It’s nasty. It’s mean. It’s vicious. It’s beautiful. When you win, it’s beautiful.
And we’re going to start – we are going to start winning for our country. We are going to start winning because our country doesn’t win anymore. Doesn’t win.
We don’t win with the military. We can’t beat ISIS. We have great military but we can’t beat ISIS.
We don’t win on trade. You look at what China’s doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border – at the border and with trade.
Mexico is killing us absolutely. We’ll do the wall. Don’t worry, we’re going to do the wall. We’re going to do the wall and by the way, who’s going to pay for the wall? Mexico is going to pay for the wall, and it’s very easy. The other politicians come down, “You can’t get Mexico to pay for the wall.” I said, “100%.” We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 billion to $12 billion. Okay? Believe me, they will pay.
One of the officials – actually one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference and he announced that “We will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump think he is?” They came to me – the press – these people. Look at all those cameras back there. The press came to me and they told me that “He said they would not pay for the wall. Do you have a comment?” I said, “Yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller.” It’s true.
And I love Mexico. I love Mexico. I love China. I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incompetent and don’t know what they’re doing. I love these countries and they’re great.
I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We’re going to Nevada. I lead – I lead with the Hispanics. I’m leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me. I love them.
The problem is that the leaders of these countries, whether it’s Mexico or Japan or Vietnam, which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden, or China in particular – that’s the big one – the greatest abuse of a country that I think I’ve ever seen financially – China – what they’ve done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They’ve taken our jobs. They’ve taken our money. They’ve taken everything.
We’re bringing our jobs back, folks. We’re bringing our jobs back. We’re going to bring them back, and I know how to do it.
We’ve had so many – we’ve had so many incredible endorsements. And to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important – Carl Icahn endorsed me. So many others have endorsed me.
And we’re going to put these great business people in charge of trade, and when China wants to come and negotiate, they’re going to negotiate not with a political hack, which is what they have now, they’re going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.
So, we’re going to do a lot of beautiful work. We’re going to terminate Obamacare. It’s going to be terminated. It’s going to be over. It’s going to be repealed, and it’s going to be replaced and you’re going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost. Because Obamacare – if you look – look at the increases in your Obamacare – 25%, 35%, 45%, even 55%. It’s dead. It’s not working. We’re going to go to a plan that’s going to be so much better and so much less expensive.
So, Second Amendment by the way this is a room loves the Second Amendment. Thank you, fellas. This is a room loves and cherishes the Second Amendment. We are going to protect our Second Amendment.
Common Core is gone. We are getting rid of Common Core. We are bringing education to a local level. The people in this community – every time I see them, they want education locally. The parents, the teachers, they want to do it. They don’t want bureaucrats telling them how to educate their children.
We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. Not even close. More per pupil. Second place doesn’t even exist it’s so different. And yet, out of 30 countries, we’re ranked number 30. You have China, you have Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and then you have number 30 – the United States. So we spend the most and we’re at the bottom of the heap. It’s not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.

We are going to build our military, which I thank, because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits watching tonight – we love our military. We love our military.
And by the way, we love our police. Our police are terrific. We love our police. They are not being treated properly.
We’re going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks. And we’re going to buy the equipments that our generals, our soldiers, and everybody that’s in the know want. We’re not buying equipment that sells because they have political people, because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions. We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they’re told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We’re going to have great equipment.
And the reason I can say that is I’m self-funding my campaign. I’m not getting millions of dollars from all of these – I’m not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. That’s not going to happen.
And we’re going to take care of our vets. We love our vets and they’re being treated terribly. We’re taking are of our vets.
So, we’re now off to Nevada and it’s a great state and we have great people. We have great people in our nation no matter where we go. I went to Mobile, Alabama – 35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice – 20,000 people, 20,000 people. No matter where we go, we fill up the arenas.
Over here the other day, we had a 9,000. We had a 10,000. We have people – the only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can’t get them in. We have to send thousands of people away.
Time Magazine – Time Magazine last week did an incredible cover story. They said it’s a movement, and that’s what it is. It’s an incredible movement with incredible people – incredible people.
It’s an incredible movement with incredible people, I tell you. And whether we go – honestly, whether we go to Dallas or whether we go to anywhere you say – you go to LA – you go anywhere you say our people are incredible.
And you know, our theme – what’s our theme? You know it, right? Right? Our theme, which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the word again is eventually going to come off. We’re going to get rid of the whole theme because what’s going to happen – make America great again. Right? And the last two weeks because I’ve gotten to see so many, I guess, millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches and I’ve met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I’ve been saying make America great again and it’s going to be greater than ever before. That’s the kind of potential that we have – greater than ever before.
So, I want to thank everybody. I love you all. Again, South Carolina, we will never forget you. We will never forget you. We will never ever forget South Carolina. We will never forget our great volunteers. We love our volunteers. We’ll never forget all of the people that have helped us so much, my family.
And folks, let’s go – let’s have a big win in Nevada. Let’s have a big win at the SEC. Let’s put this thing away and let’s make America great again.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
