
I think that. I watch the world, and I look at China and other countries. And if China goes down with GDP to 7% or even 8%, it’s like they’ll have a revolution.
And then what do they do? They start devaluing, devaluing. They do of all sorts of things, and they get it back on track one way or the other.
And I’ve had friends come to me that have been devastated. People that are manufacturers, that are great manufacturers, very successful people, but they’ve become less and less successful because they can’t beat the system. And in this way, too, it’s a rigged system.
And they’re almost doing well and then, boom, there’s a massive devaluation in China or other countries.
And there are plenty of other countries out there. Some are actually hurting China now.
But the fact is that when they have 7% and you see it where they start dropping 7% or 8%, they consider that to be a disaster. And yet we’re stuck at 1%. Probably the real number is 1% but certainly no more than 2%, and we try and learn to live with it. We can’t do that anymore.
So we’re going to unleash a tremendous opportunity that we’re bringing back the trillions of dollars that doesn’t come into this country. And that does really, I said in my remarks that does really bring a lot of companies out. They go to get their money. They leave. Not even because taxes are too high. They leave to get to heir money.
So, we’re going to unleash a lot. We’re going to unleash a lot with the regulations.
I’ll tell you the thing that most surprised me in going around, because I’ve been to, I mean, I’ve been everywhere. I have been working. This started on June 16th. Who knew this was going to happen, right? But it started on June 16 and it’s been an amazing thing.
But what truly amazed me from a business standpoint. I speak to big businesses. The biggest businesses in the world. But I also speak to the small business people and the farmers. If they had their choice between this massive tax cut from 35% down to 15% or regulation relief, they would take almost 100% of the time regulation relief.
The regulations are a disaster. They’re killing people. They’re killing the farmers. They’re killing the energy folks. They’ve killed the mines.
And you know we all believe there’s to be regulation for safety, for environment, for certain reasons. But it is gone so crazy and it’s gotten excessive, but they would take that over taxes.
So, we’re going to unleash a tremendous number of jobs coming in.
Plus, we’re going to have great cutting. Waste, fraud, abuse. But think of that word “waste.”
I mean, with the Penny Plan. Just a penny out of every dollar. Now, I know you can do that very easily. But we have to appoint to head these massive massive agencies you know, if they were companies they’d be, rather large companies, they’d be up there with the biggest . Some would be bigger than any of the other companies.
But you take a penny, a penny, off the dollar and you do that for a number of years and all of sudden really great things start to happen.
In addition to that, we spend a tremendous amount on military, which we’re going to increase. We have no choice.
But we also defend other countries. And those countries are not paying us nearly what they should be paying us. We’re losing tremendous, billions and billions of dollars on defending other people. Some of whom don’t even appreciate the fact that we’re defending them. And many of them don’t pay us. They don’t pay us. They don’t pay us. I say why because you know, they don’t ask. We don’t ask.
So, those countries I’m sure will start to pay for the defense, but it’s a fantastic, it’s a fantastic number. It’s a very, very large, it’s a shocking number. It’s a shocking number.
I will just finish with saying this. I have great respect for Japan. But as you know, we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend Saudi Arabia. We defend South Korea. We have 28,000 soldiers right now South Korea. These are economic behemoths. Behemoths.
These are wealthy countries and when I said they have to pay more, a general came to refute my statement and said, “Doesn’t Mr. Trump know that Japan pays 50% of the cost of its defense?” And I said, “Ah, why don’t they pay 100%?”
The numbers you’re talking about are massive, and when you add it all together, a lot of good things are going to happen.

Donald Trump:
A lot of that has to do with the cutting because we’re going to be cutting costs also. As part of our tax plan, we have to cut costs.
But, I think we’re going to unleash something that’s going to be so amazing and a lot of it’s competition.
You look at Ireland being just about the lowest, a little bit lower. So, we’re not the lowest, but we’re getting down there.
But right now, essentially we’re the highest in the world, certainly of the industrialized countries.
And we set it from a competitor’s standpoint and we added to that, and very importantly added to that the cutting, the cost cutting. And there’s tremendous fat.
You know, it’s interesting when all of us, so many in the room do this, but when we buy companies, we like to buy companies that are poorly run, right? Because we can have so much room to cut. We don’t want to buy a perfectly running machine where we can’t do too much.
Well, we’re not a perfectly running machine. We have tremendous waste, tremendous fraud, tremendous abuse.
Our military orders equipment that frankly, it’s ordered, I say politically motivated. Because they’ll buy equipment that’s not as good as the equipment they want and the equipment they want, that the generals want, is better and it’s less expensive.
We have so many things we can do if we do it properly.
And you know, my whole theme has been,”Make America Great Again.” We’re going to make America great again.

Donald Trump:
…We think and hopefully beyond that eventually with time this is going to work out. Absolutely.
But the big things, in terms of neutrality, is going to be the amount of business that we generate. The fact that companies are no longer going to be leaving.
I mean, you have to look at the list of companies.
I told you just before that Ford Motor Company, this is a massive amount of business they’re taking. Their small cars, all small cars, they’re going to make them in Mexico.
It’s like, you know, it’s a story in a newspaper, but it’s devastating for Michigan and areas of the country that have to go through this.
We’re going to keep our companies here.
Our companies are leaving us because taxes are so high.
Our companies are leaving us because they can’t bring their money back in.
Our companies are leaving us because of regulation. The regulation is so massive that our companies are leaving us.
So, I think we’re going to, number one we’re going to keep companies here. They’re not going to be leaving anymore because now they have a better deal than where they’re looking to go. But importantly, we’re also coupling that with cutting costs. Cutting budgetary costs and lots of costs. There will be many costs that we’re going to be cutting.
And we’re going to be enhanced by certain things like…with the military and the defense of other countries which a lot of people didn’t even know.
I don’t think too many people knew even this room until I started speaking about it a year ago. I don’t think a lot of people knew that we defend, as an example, Germany or Japan.
You pretty much knew South Korea and we’re defending South Korea. You know Saudi Arabia as an example. Saudi Arabia, we know. Lots of wealth. Lots of money.
They don’t pay us very much for what we do.
And you know you could ask yourself, “How long would Saudi Arabia even be there if we weren’t defending them?”
And I think we should defend them, but we have to be compensated properly for that defense. I’m sure they’ll be thrilled to hear that.

Now, there is some areas where you could buy back debt. I don’t know. Somebody put that out. I said buy back debt.
You know this isn’t like you’re building a real estate project and the market crashes and you have your shot at a bank. I love those days, you know? I love that.
Somebody said I’m one of the great in the world at that. I love, you know, I love buying back debt. I love negotiating debt.
But with the United States you’re talking about something beyond a gold standard.
Now the interest is down, but you can buy back, we’re not talking at discount. You can discount. You can do things. But no, the debt of this country is absolutely sacred. Absolutely 100% sacred. You have to do it.

Well, I’d go back to the heads of the various groups agencies, you know, all of the different parcels of government, and I would be putting very, very top people into negotiate. We don’t do that.
Honestly, we put political people in to negotiate. We put people in that gave contributions. We put people in that, you know, work the system. We put people in that shouldn’t be there.
And when you say can you cut 1% off your budget, they look like this is impossible when they are people in this room because I know a couple of them. They’re total killers. I won’t call them out. They hear 1%. They say that I can do it all in one year. I can get it down to 25% in one year. Maybe more.  I say take it easy, just relax.
But there are people in this room that would say that.
So you know when you hear, 1% a year for ten years; that’s a massive difference, 1% a year for ten years.
So, I would really have it done at the level of the group running whatever individual thing within government that their running.  They will be able to do it if we have the right people.  We don’t have the right people.
We have people that shouldn’t be doing what they’re doing.  We have people that have people under them that are far, far more competent than they are.  And those people lose respect for the system when they see what’s coming, and I can’t tell you how strongly I believe this.
The trade deals are so bad.  NAFTA has destroyed our country.  NAFTA has destroyed the manufacturing leg of our country.
You look at places like upstate New York where they lost 40% of their manufacturing.  And they’re going to lose a lot more before it’s done.
Don’t forget, Hillary Clinton’s said when she was running for the Senate that she’s going to bring jobs back to New York.  She meant New York but Upstate New York.  Upstate New York, out on Long Island.  You look at things that are happening and it’s unbelievable.  Building after building that’s empty. She didn’t bring anything. They left. They all left.
So, when we negotiate great trade deals, and we don’t even including that to a large extent in the numbers that we’re giving you.
But when we take NAFTA and make it a two-way highway not a one way, so that, yes, things go out and we have at least equal and I mean at least because we have a lot of things catching up to do.  They have absolutely stripped this country of its manufacturing jobs and jobs.  And companies have destroyed companies.  Thousands and thousands of companies, millions of jobs.
We’re going to get that back.  We’re going to get that back.
So whenever I talk about tax cutting and I talk about balancing, a big part of that is we’re going to have great trade deals.  He would be a man to negotiate; I think I will put him in charge of China.

…We have the greatest negotiators of the world.  We have to use.
When China enters that negotiation, they come in with 20 people that are the toughest, smartest, meanest. They don’t say, “Good morning. Isn’t it a lovely day? Isn’t it wonderful? How did the Yankees do last night?” There’s no talk. It’s like we get down to business.  Boom!  No games.
We put people in there that don’t know what they’re doing.  Because this is why we have deficits of $500 billion with one country.
We rebuilt China, and I say that with great respect for China. I have a great relationship with China.
They used to tell me before I was running that they can’t – I have many friends from China.  The biggest people, the richest people. They cannot believe what China gets away with.  They said we cannot believe it.
But then when I announced I was running for president, they called, “Oh I didn’t really mean that.”  They didn’t know this was going to happen.
But in the good old days, they would tell me, “We don’t believe that. Your government is stupid.”
But now they deny they’ve ever said that.

Track record, great competence, love of what they’re doing, how they’re getting along with people, references. I mean no different than when you’re running a company how you hire top people. It would be no different.
The government, you need people with heart, also. You know it’s probably the one thing you need in government that they don’t have in business quite as much. But you need some some but not a lot.
But you need people that are truly, truly capable.
And you need, and I think so much has to do with past history. How they’ve done. How’s it all worked at. You understand what I mean by that perhaps better than anybody. And we have to get the best people.
We can longer be so politically correct.
You know we do things today, we’re so politically correct. People are afraid to walk. They’re afraid to talk. They can’t speak. They’re afraid they’re going to say the wrong word and they’ll be shunned from society.
Don’t worry. It only lasts about a week if that happens. It’s not that bad.
But we have to stop being so politically correct.
We need to get the best and the finest, and if we don’t, we’ll be in trouble for a long period of time. And maybe never come out of it.
I honestly believe, and I’m not saying this because it’s myself, this is the last time. This going to be the last election we have a chance to make this country great again. To really make it wealthy again. Make it strong again. Make it, you know, all of the things that we want to see. We have to have.
But I really believe this is the most important election that we’ve been involved in, you know, for many many many many years. Many decades. And because it’s going down.
The Supreme Court justices that I told you about before. I mean if they put certain people onto the Supreme Court, our country is going to be a whole different country. We’re going to be a large-scale version Venezuela. We’re going to be a totally different deal, and this is the last chance that, in my opinion, our country has to really get better, to get well.
And I just think this election is so important, not because of me, but because of the ideas. The ideas that we have. The ideas that we need to do what have to do.
But I think it’s going to be a very, very important election and that’s why we’re seeing such enthusiasm.
You know we go make a speech, John, and we have people showing up 25,000 people show up and 30,000 people. And we announced one day.
We had one in Pensacola the other day. We had this massive tens of thousands of people showed up. We announced like a day and a half before this speech on Twitter. We don’t even take ads.
People want to see great things happen for this country. People really love this country. The people of this country really love this country.
Even other countries want to see great things happen because it’s so important.
So, I just think this is going to be the most important election that we’ve had for many, many decades, and I’m not sure you’re going to have second chance at it.

H&R Block would be a disaster, okay? Because we’re simplifying. How about people that go with tax? It’s so complicated. You’d need 180 IQ to understand it.
And people that frankly are making a small amount of money, they have to go and they have their tax return done by people.
And by the way, when they’re done you’ll have 10 different tax people and you’ll have 10 different answers to the same person. The whole thing is crazy.
So that would be one industry that wouldn’t do well.
…So, I can tell you an industry that will do well, and an industry that we can use, I know prices are low now but when prices go up, is the energy industry.
We have amazing people in that industry and they are just being decimated. They are being absolutely decimated. And energy is salt work.
And we found out because of new technology whether it’s fracking or many other things, we’re sitting on top of our land, it’s turned out to be – we have more than just about anybody in the world. Our land has turned out to be so valuable because of what’s underneath.
We have to be careful. We have to be very environmentally sound. That’s very important.
But it’s incredible when you look at what’s happened in the last 5 years. We can be self-sufficient, which we have to be, otherwise we’ll be stuck in the Middle East forever.
And we have to get out of that war. We have to knock out ISIS. I didn’t want to be in that war. But I wasn’t a politician. Nobody really cared. But I didn’t want to be in the war. But we have no choice. The way they got out was bad, to get out so quickly and not leave anybody behind.
ISIS developed. We have to knock out ISIS.
You see the atrocities they committed. Yesterday, I guess it was 22 or 24 people hung from racks of a slaughter house like a slaughter house and then their throats cut. I mean can you imagine this? Nobody has ever heard of things like this before.
And then we talk about water boarding. It’s an incredible thing. No, it’s incredible.
We’re not playing on the same playing field.
But if you look at the atrocities committed just yesterday with the meat hooks, we have no choice but to totally decimate ISIS. We have to do it. We have to do it rapidly. We have no choice.
And then we have to get back to building our country, folks. We have to rebuild the infrastructure of our country. We have to rebuild our country because it’s a mess.

As a real estate person, I always like low interest rates, of course.
But I think what’s going to happen is you’re going to have them until Jan. 1st because Obama wants to go. He wants to play golf. And he wants to leave. He doesn’t want to have any stock market disruptions.
And I think the fed is being totally controlled politically. They’re not raising rates. They’re being controlled politically. I think they’re going to be low. I don’t even know if they’re going to have a raise. They’re going to be low until the end of the year.
I don’t think Obama wants to go out this way. It shouldn’t be working this way. They shouldn’t even be discussing it.
Martin may or may not disagree with me. I think it’s a terrible thing that’s happening. We’re doing it for political. The Fed is very political. They’ve become very political like many other groups in this country. Beyond anything I would’ve thought possible.
So I think you’re going to have low interest rates until the end of the year. Maybe no increase at all. And the market will stay artificially high. And then we’re going to have to see what happens after that. We’re not doing the right job.
With all of that being said, all of my life I like low interest rates. Because I’m doing this, I can’t take advantage of it but that’s okay.
But I will say it’s become, the Fed, in my opinion has become very political. I don’t think they would do.. I really believe if it was a political decision or a right decision they’re going to go with the political decision every single time.
