
Well, thank you very much everyone.
I want to start by, as always, thanking my family. My wife, Melania. My kids – they’re not kids anymore but they’re kids as far as I’m concerned. They’ll always be my kids. And I want to thank my great parents who are looking down right now and my brother looking down on us. I want to thank my entire family, including Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert.
And it’s been some unbelievable day and evening and year. I never have been through anything like this but it’s a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful thing to behold, and we’re going to make America great again. We’re going to make America great again.
So important – so important that the people of Indiana have been incredible.
I started as you know not very long ago – about six weeks ago – and I was told that I had a 20 point deficit.
And I went there and I worked very hard and I campaigned and I made lots of speeches and met lots of incredible people – incredible people. You don’t get better, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. And toward the end, it was like I didn’t want to leave. I almost said, “Maybe I’ll just never leave” and it resonated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.
It was a tremendous victory.
And I have to thank Bobby Knight. Boy, Bobby Knight was incredible. He was incredible.
I always that people like that – there aren’t many – but it’s called tough, smart, and they know how to win. And that’s what our country needs. We have to win again. We have to know how to win.
And we haven’t won. We’ve been losing all the time. We lose with our military. We can’t beat ISIS. We lose with trade. We lose with borders. We lose everything.
We’re not going to lose. We’re going to start winning again and we’re going to win big league. Believe me.
So when I got back tonight and I started watching all of the different networks, I could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks like a massive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.

And I must say in staying in various places in Indiana, I turned on the television and all I saw was negative ads, negative one after another after another.
And I called my people and I said, “How can we win? It’s just constantly.” It was the same as in Florida. You know, there’ve been 60,000 negative ads.
I got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. In fact, two weeks ago it was 55,000. Now it’s 60,000 negative ads – most of which are absolutely false and disgusting. And I said how can anybody endure this?
I had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between segments of a show that I was watching. And I said that’s just incredible.
And the people are so smart. They don’t buy it. They get it.
And it’s tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent – millions and millions of dollars. And they were comparing it. They think it was probably $8 million was spent against me and we spent $900,000. So, I mean, to me that’s the way it’s supposed to be. That’s something that makes me feel really, really very good.
And now we’re going to Nebraska where I have – I just hear we’re doing really wonderfully. I look forward to that very much.
And West Virginia. And we’re going to get those miners back to work. I’ll tell you what. We’re going to get those miners back to work.
We’re not going to be Hillary Clinton, and I watched her three or four weeks ago where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers and she was talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work again.
Let me tell you, the miners in West Virginia and Pennsylvania which was so great to me last week and Ohio and all over, they’re going to start to work again. Believe me. You’re going to be proud again to be miners.
So we’ll be going there. I must say this tremendous run that we’ve had started with New York when we had almost 62%. And don’t forget, that’s with three people. So 62% with two people is a massive landslide. But 63% almost – just a little over 62% – when you have that kind of a number with three people, it’s actually unheard of.
And all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, it’s tremendous, and we were getting very high numbers. And some of the numbers in my opinion that I got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 people. I think that might actually be more and better than getting 62% in New York. But we never got the credit for that.
But now we don’t need the credit because we’re going after Hillary Clinton. She will not be a great president. She will not be a good president. She will be a poor president.
She doesn’t understand trade. Her husband signed perhaps in the history of the world the single worst trade deal ever done. It’s called NAFTA.
And I was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. Now I’ve known Syracuse and I’ve known Poughkeepsie and I’ve known all of the different places that I visited in New York and then Pennsylvania and then Maryland, which treated me so great the people are incredible.

And all of the different state – Connecticut. And I’ve witnessed what it’s done really firsthand. And it has been indeed carnage.
And we’re going to change it around.
We’re not going to let Carrier and all of these companies just think they can move – go to another country, make their products, sell it back to us, and we get only one thing: We get unemployment. Not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.
We’re going to bring back our jobs and we’re going to keep our jobs. We’re not going to let companies leave.
Now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.
But when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries that devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to compete, that’s not going to happen. Not going to happen.
And if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be very, very serious consequences.
I have to tell you that I’ve competed all my life. Competitive person. All my life I’ve been in competitions. Different competitions whether it’s sports or business or now for 10 months politics.
And I have to tell you that I have met some of the most incredible competitors that I have ever competed against right here on the Republican Party.
You know, we started off with that 17 number. And just so you understand – Ted Cruz – I don’t know if he likes me or if he doesn’t like me. But he is one hell of a competitor. He is a tough, smart guy.
And he has got an amazing future. He’s got an amazing future. So I want to congratulate Ted.
And I know how tough it is. It’s tough. It’s tough.
I’ve had some moments where it’s not looking so good, and it’s not a great feeling. And so I understand how Ted feels and Heidi and their whole beautiful family.
And I just want to say that one tough competitor and I can say that for the others. I mean, Chris Christie who endorsed me. Incredible guy. Dr. Ben Carson who was right up there, one of the first. He just called me and said, “It’s a movement you’ve got going. We’ve got to do something because I’ll tell you what, it’s an incredible movement.” And Dr. Ben Carson endorsed me. And I want to tell you that is an incredible man and we want to keep Ben totally involved because we’re going to win. We’re going to win in November.
And we’re going to win big and it’s going to be America first.
You know, I made a speech the other day and I talked about how we’re the policemen for the world, how we protect other countries and they don’t respect us and they don’t take care of us and they don’t treat us right in many cases.
And that’s not going to happen.
Now, we’re going to keep things going and we’re going to keep things going very nicely but we owe – soon – $21 trillion. It’s $19 trillion now but with a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.
And we’re just not in a position that we’re in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking place.
So, we’re going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.
But likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what we’ve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to the United States, to its people, and to its taxpayers.
So that will change. And I will tell you, they’re going to end up liking us better than they do right. They’re going to respect us.
In this building right upstairs, I have the largest bank in the world from China. The relationship is fantastic.
We have great relationships with many foreign countries. But they have to respect us and they have to understand where we’re coming from.
And you know, it is a two-way street. And the two-way street means that we’re going down one side and they’re coming up the other. And we’re going to meet and we are going to have something that’s going to be really fabulous.
Now, if that can’t happen. If for some reason they want this system to continue the way it’s going now, which is not fair and not good, where we’re spending trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the Middle East.
And we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. We have to rebuild our bridges, our airports, our hospitals in this country.
We’ve become close to a third world country. You look at some of our airports; it’s third world. And then you go to other countries and you see places like you’ve never seen.
So I have to say that we are going to turn it around.
We’re going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before. It’s the cheapest thing we can do. And we’re going to have to take out ISIS and we’re going to have to take them out fast. We can’t allow that cancer to continue. We cannot allow it to continue.
And you know, one group that’s been so incredible to me are the vets – the veterans. And they’ve been treated so badly. So badly. And we’re going to get that straightened out.
Now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and it’s happened now with two or three. But the Rasmussen poll came out yesterday and in that poll, I’m now leading Hillary Clinton. A lot of good things…
And that’s going to continue because they’re not going to be able to do it, folks.
They’re not going to be able to make great trade deals. We have such bad deals.
They’re not going to be able to do what we do with the military.
They’re not going to be able to do what we’re going to do on the border, including the wall.
We’re going to have unbelievably great relationships with the Hispanics. The Hispanics have been so incredible to me. They want jobs. Everybody want jobs. The African-Americans want jobs. You look at what’s going on. They want jobs.
And we’re going to bring back our jobs. We’re going to save our jobs and people are going to have great jobs again.
And this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. And we’re going to love each other. We’re going to cherish each other. We’re going to take care of each other. And we’re going to have great economic development.
And we’re not going to let other countries take it away from us because that’s what’s been happening for far too many years and we’re not going to do it anymore. We’re not going to do it anymore.
I want to thank and congratulate the Republican National Committee and Reince Priebus, who I just spoke to. He’s doing a tremendous job. It’s not an easy job when he had 17 egos and now I guess he’s down to one.
I don’t know. Is there a second? I mean, is there a second? I don’t know.
But I have ask you folks to explain the status of that.
But he’s done an amazing job and I think we’re going to see something really, really fantastic.
I also want to thank my staff, Paul, Cory, Pope. I mean, these people. What we’ve been doing has been incredible.
The work has been unreal.
And Jared [Kushner], married to my daughter Ivanka. I mean, honestly, you know Jared is a very successful real estate person but I actually think he likes politics more than he likes real estate. I’m excited. And he’s very good at politics.
So again folks this has been an amazing evening. I didn’t expect this. I didn’t expect it.
And what Ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do because we want to bring unity to the Republican Party. We have to bring unity. It’s so much easier if we have it.
And many, many people are calling that you wouldn’t even believe – the media, the press, they wouldn’t believe. People who have said the worst things about me – I’ve never had things said about me like this.
You know, with my businesses, I’ve always been very respected. People didn’t talk to me this way. But in politics, it’s easy.
The worst things and they’re calling now and they’re calling us all and they’re saying, “We’d love to get on the train” – the “Trump Train” they call it – “But we’d love to get on the team.”
And I actually spoke to one today who was vicious. I mean, this guy was unbelievable. And I said, “I’d love having you and I think it’s terrific. But after what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?” And he said, “Mr. Trump, don’t even think about it. Don’t worry about it. There’ll be no problem.” In other words, he’s a politician; there’s no problem. I would have had a hard time.
But we have a lot of people coming – lots of congressmen. I have to thank Jeff Sessions – Sen. Jeff Sessions – one of the most respected men or people in Congress.
And so many others. I mean, Sarah Palin has been from day one incredible.
Jerry Falwell, Jr. Liberty University, I mean he is something. He is really a special person. They’ve done an incredible job and everybody goes through Liberty. We all go through Liberty and somehow he liked what I was saying and perhaps he liked the way I said it. But he’s a special guy and he really has helped. And so many pastors and ministers.
And tonight, I see that I won with the evangelicals. The evangelical vote was for Trump.
And there’s no greater honor. No greater honor. We’re going to work together for many, many years. We’re going to make it so good. We’re going to be saying Merry Christmas again. We’re going to be saying it…
And I won with women. I love winning with women. But I won with women. I won with men. We won with Hispanics. We won with African-Americans. We won with every – virtually every category. So it’s just been an amazing evening.
So again, I want to congratulate Ted Cruz. He is a tough, smart competitor. I want to thank my wife and my family. It’s an incredible family.
I want to thank my staff – both my staff and my thousands and thousands of people that work for the Trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness more importantly on this evening and for what we’re doing currently, my staff where we’re running for the presidency.
And remember this. Our theme is very simple. It’s make America great. We will make America great again. We will start winning again. You will be so proud of this country very, very soon.
Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you! Thank you very much!
