
That’s right. We’re going to make a tour. We’ll go the border. And we’ll see you later. Hopefully, we’ll see you later.
How do you feel about the union – the border union – backing out?
Well, they’re petrified and they’re afraid of saying what’s happening. You know, they’re the ones that invited me. They wanted to give me an award.
And the border patrol – they’re petrified of saying what’s happening because they have a real problem here. And I’m talking about on the whole border.
And they invited me and all of a sudden they were told – silencio – they want silence.
So it’s a problem that we will get straighten out.
If I win, believe me, we’ll get things straighten out.
Well, they say it’s a great danger but I have to do it. I love the country. There’s nothing more important than what I’m doing.
And I’m the one that brought up the problem of illegal immigration.
And it’s a big problem. It’s a huge problem.
You folks know it better than anybody.
And you look at the crowds outside. We have big crowds that are all screaming in favor of Trump. Everybody wants me because they want the problem fixed.
We have to have legal immigration.
Yeah, we want to get the legal immigration in. We want legal immigration.
Well, I think Rick Perry did a terrible job as the governor of Texas where the border security was terrible.
Now, your new governor of Texas I think is doing a great job – Abbott. Gov. Abbott’s doing a great job.
But Rick Perry, honestly, I don’t think he even understands…
Oh, he’s following in my lead, absolutely. I mean, we’re the ones that brought up – you know, I took a lot of heat the first week. And then the second week, everybody realized that I was right.
…You know, one other thing. I employ thousands and thousands of Hispanics. I love the people. The Latinos. I love the people. They’re great. They’re workers. They’re fantastic people.
But they want – and they want – these people that work for me – they want legal immigration. They want it to be legal. They don’t want the illegal immigration with all the tremendous amount of crime that already even today I’m hearing about.
And people are saying “Oh, it’s so dangerous. What you’re doing, Mr. Trump, it’s so dangerous. What you’re doing.”
I have to do it. I have to do it.
