
…Well, I want to thank Sheriff Joe. This is a man, when we talk about borders, this is a man who believes in borders. And getting his endorsement means a lot to me.
And he called and he said he’d like to do it, he’s actually wanted to do that for quite some time. We said let’s hold it for a little because we’re looking at the world and we’re seeing what’s happening. We’re seeing a lot of bad things happening, and he’s the kind of guy that we want on our team.
He’s tough. He’s strong. And he’s smart. And he’s done an amazing job. And he’s got a great, great following of people that absolutely love him and revere him.
And Joe, I would like to really thank you. Come here. Thank you very much…
Question:
[Inaudible]
Donald Trump:
No deals. No deals. Joe never asked me for a thing. Sarah Palin never asked me for a thing.
We got a tremendous endorsement today, as you know, from Jerry Falwell from Liberty University. Jerry’s a terrific man respected by everybody.
And I will tell you that…no deals. Jerry didn’t say, “Oh, could I do this? Could I do that?” Joe didn’t say it. Sarah didn’t say it. We don’t make deals.
We don’t make deals. Not with Fox. Not with anybody. We don’t make deals.
You have a dealmaker for the country. The country needs somebody that knows what they’re doing because we’re a country that is adrift. We’re a country that doesn’t know what they’re doing at the top.
When you look at the Iran deal, when you look at the Bergdahl deal, when you look at any single thing they are doing, we are adrift. We have no idea what we’re doing as a country and it’s a problem.
…And I said – what did I say? You didn’t read it. Read the full statement of what I said. Read the full statement. No, no, you’re not reading the full statement. Go ahead, get out the full statement. Read it.
No, no, but read the full statement.

Now, the first thing that’s going to happen if he ever got the nomination, which I don’t think will happen, but if he ever got the nomination, the first thing that’s going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue because there’s a very real question as to whether or not he is able to run, as to whether or not he is entitled to run.
As you know, Laurence Tribe said it’s not a settled matter, which is a big problem. But other people have now come back and said this is actually a settled matter; he doesn’t have the right to run.
I think I’m convincing them. I think we’ve – look, every poll says I’m ahead and you know, we’ll see what happens. I have bonded with the people of Iowa. I mean, Iowa today I’ve bonded.
The evangelicals when I get Jerry Falwell who just endorsed me today, who’s a phenomenal man from Liberty University. When Jerry called up, I was so happy to get that endorsement. Then he put it out just a little while ago.
But I’ve really bonded with evangelicals, with the Tea Party and with the people of Iowa. We’ll see what happens.
I’m not a fan of Megyn Kelly. I think she’s a third-rate reporter. I think she frankly is not good at what she does. And I think they can do a lot better than Megyn Kelly…[Inaudible]…The decision with Fox. But I probably won’t bother doing the debate.
I see they’ve picked me as number one, not only number one, number one by far. But probably I won’t be doing the debate.
I’m going to have something else in Iowa. We’ll do something where we raise money for the veterans and the Wounded Warriors. We’re going to do something simultaneously with the debate. But most likely, I’m not going to do the debate.
I didn’t like the fact that they sent out press releases toying, talking about Putin and playing games.
I don’t know what games Roger Ailes was playing…what’s wrong over there. Something’s wrong.
But when they sent out that press release talking about, I said, “Why are these people playing games?” So most likely I won’t be doing the debate.
Now, let’s see how many people watch. We’ll have our own event. We’ll raise some money for the Wounded Warriors. We’ll raise money for the vets.
But when they sent out the wise guy press releases a little while ago – I was all set to do the debate. I came here to do the debate. When they sent out the wise guy press releases a little while ago, done by some PR person along with Roger Ailes, I said “Bye bye.” Okay?

And now you say when does this stop? How many debates do you have to do?
The Democrats are finished with their debates. Is that a correct statement? They’re finished. They don’t have any more debates.
The Republicans go on forever and ever and ever with debates. We have people on the stand that have zero, that have one, that have nothing. So it’s time that somebody plays grown-up.
And then when I see a press release written by a child like I just saw, I said, “What do I have to do? Why do I have to make Fox rich? Let me make the Wounded Warriors rich. Let me make the veterans rich.”
I don’t want to be used.
Hey look, this country needs somebody that’s a dealmaker. This country needs somebody that’s going to make great deals with Russia and China and Japan, where they’re sending us millions of cars and we get – what do we get? Okay? What do we get? We have deficits with these countries.
We need people that know what they’re doing. We don’t need babies.
When they send stuff out like that, they’re not dealing with a baby. They’re not dealing with a baby. So we’ll see.
I said give money to the Wounded Warriors. I said give money to the veterans.
Megyn Kelly is a lightweight. This is a lightweight. This is not a reporter. This to me is just a lightweight. Megyn Kelly shouldn’t be in the debate. I don’t care about Megyn – when Megyn Kelly didn’t ask me a question, she made a statement last time, I thought it was inappropriate. Everybody said I won the debate. Everybody said I won the last debate. They said I won all of the debates.
We’ve had six debates now. Why should the networks continue getting rich on these debates? Give some to the Wounded Warriors. They’re making a fortune.
Let’s see how much money Fox is going to make with the debate without me. Okay? All right? Let’s see.
But I have the toughest plan in terms of border. Nobody close. I’m building the wall. And now other people are saying we want to build a wall. Where were they? You know, where have they been.
We’re talking about a wall. We’re talking about building a strong border. Sheriff Joe understand that probably better than anybody as he’s done a great job and he’s been given very little resource.
And so I think the representation of having Sheriff Joe on my side was really great. Something I appreciated very much.
When I announced I was running for president, I did this on June 16th. Illegal immigration – this would not even be talked about if I didn’t bring it up. Would not even be talked about.
Right now, it’s the biggest subject. And now it carries over to ISIS and all of the things that are happening with the migration and Syria and people coming in that we have no idea who they are. We have no idea who these people are. They could be ISIS. They could be – we don’t know. And it’s got to stop.
We owe $19 trillion as a country. We have people running our country that are incompetent. They don’t know what they’re doing. We have to create a strong border. We need security for our country. We cannot allow that to happen.

We have gangs right now that are made up in Los Angeles and different places that are made up 100% of illegal immigrants who are rough tough dudes. They would be gone so fast.
The local police know all about it. They know who they are. They would be gone so fast.
You know, my whole life I’ve been dealing with politicians. That’s what I do. I deal with politicians. Politicians are fine. But now it’s time to do it a lot better because these politicians have turned out to be all talk, no action. They talk. All they care about is getting re-elected.
We need to get our deficits. We need to bring our country back.
We’re losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year in trade with China. We’re losing tremendous amounts of money in trade with Japan.
…You look at South Korea. I have friends in South Korea. I have deals in South Korea. I have buildings in South Korea. But we have 28,000 soldiers on the line. 28,000. What do we get out of this?
First of all, Mexico is going to pay for the wall and the reason Mexico is going to pay – you know, a lot of people think like some of the politicians – “Well, you can’t get Mexico…” Of course you can. They’re making a fortune off of the United States in terms of trade.
I’m going to bring jobs back from China, from Japan, from Mexico. We’re going to bring jobs back to our country.
Our country is starving for jobs. We’re losing all of our jobs. We’re losing our base. We’re losing our manufacturing. China is devaluing its currency making it impossible for our – it’s making it virtually impossible for our companies to compete.
And now, Japan is doing the same thing. Japan is killing us with their yen. They’re devaluing, and you take a look at what’s happening with Caterpillar versus Komatsu and some of the companies over there. It’s brutal.
Take a look at Caterpillar. They’re getting killed because our politicians don’t know what they’re doing.
And now we have corporate inversions where a lot of people – you just saw the one today – Tyco, et cetera coming out moving Ireland. Pfizer moving to Ireland. They’re leaving the country.
We have major corporations leaving the country because our politicians don’t know what they’re doing.
That’s right. They fly in. They come in. They’re here legally. They stay forever. Can’t happen. We either have a country or we don’t. We’ve got to have a country again.
It’s called make America great. It’s what’s going to happen.

No, but why didn’t you read that before? You didn’t read “I hate the concept of abortion”.
Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Very trustworthy. You sort of knew. Because you know what? You didn’t read the question.
See? When you quoted Tim Russert, you didn’t read what you just said. Read it again. No, read it again.
…Look, I understand him. And I always got along with him fine. But I always waited and I waited for him to do and finally at the last debate he finally started knocking the people of New York and values. I thought it was a disgrace and a lot of people thought it was a disgrace and I’m not just talking about people from New York.
What’s going to happen over the next period of time, nothing’s going to be nice. Nothing’s going to be easy.
But Ted is a wreck. And the reason he’s a wreck is because he doesn’t know if he even – he has checked and he’s a good lawyer. He doesn’t know himself whether or not he has the legal right to run and to serve as president. Now, how can you vote for somebody when you know the Democrats are going to bring a suit?
There’s a cloud on title. It’s called in real estate cloud on title. Here it’s a cloud over his head. Nobody knows whether or not he can even run for office. I tend to doubt it. Some great constitutional lawyers are now saying he doesn’t have the right to serve. He cannot run and serve as president of the United States. That’s a problem.
I also did not like the fact that on his financial disclosure form, it’s a big problem. He’s going to be Robin Hood. He’s going to protect everybody. Not to mention a couple of little facts. The banks. Right? He didn’t put them in. Now, why didn’t he put Goldman Sachs in? Why didn’t he put Citicorp in? He didn’t put them in. He said he forgot.
He also said he didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen 15 months ago. How come he didn’t know? He’s a smart guy. He said, “Oh, I didn’t know I was.” He didn’t know. He didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen. So he was born in Canada, he was a Canadian citizen, and 15 months ago he renounced his citizenship. So he probably has a first. He was the first Canadian citizen ever to be a senator in this country – a senator from Texas. But he didn’t know he was a Canadian. He was a joint U.S.-Canadian citizen. He was a Canadian citizen. He didn’t know that he was a Canadian citizen?
And if you check Drudge and if you check Time and if you check Slate and all of the other online polls that judge the debates, almost every single poll – I think every single poll – but almost every single poll said I won every single debate. It’s not bad.

I said – it was CNN. I said I think you should give money to the vets. And I’ve always said that. Wounded Warriors and the vets. I think you should give money to the vets…
