
It has provided us an opportunity to present to Mr. Trump and his entourage what Laredo is all about.
You know, Laredo is the number one land port in the nation. We do – Laredo, per se, does over 40% of the Mexican trade.
Laredo is known for obviously transportation. You could see the big trucks behind us and logistics.
We are – NAFTA has been very good to us. We’re excited about that.
We also have oil and gas production at the county and it also provides a revenue to us.
Mr. Trump has brought up certain issues – about the immigration issue in particular.
We, at least I feel personally, that immigration reform is required, is needed. We need protection in the border area. We need to secure the border but we also need other elements. You know, obviously, the immigration act or bill.
So with that in mind, it’s a pleasure to have Mr. Trump. The excitement that he brings is also very on the plus side for our city, and we appreciate all of the attention but we know that the attention comes from really through this gentleman here.
Mexico is booming, absolutely booming.
And Jesus – the city manager – and Pete have done an amazing job right here. But a lot of what’s happening here is because of the fact that Mexico is doing so well. Just doing beyond what anybody ever thought and I don’t know if it’s good for the United States but it’s good for Mexico…
So I have a great relationship. Over the years, thousands and thousands of Hispanics have worked for me and now work for me, and the relationship is very good.
And in fact, as you know, the border patrol was the one that invited me. I think most of you have that invitation. We sent it. The border patrol invited me and then they cancelled because frankly they don’t want to get involved…The reason they invited me was because of the tremendous problem and the tremendous crime and all of the things that I’ve been talking about.
So they invited me and then at the last moment – I mean, we were virtually in the air – and they said, “We can’t get involved.” And I heard they got those orders from Washington.
Come on, Jesus, say a word. This man – I’m going to steal him to run something for me. He’s fantastic.
You know, this is one of the greatest cities on the border and we’re a vibrant city.
And as Mr. Trump mentioned, you know, the trade that we have here with Mexico, this is where the rubber meets the road. And all of you can see it right behind us, this is where all the trade comes through that Mexico and the United States have in common right here.
And not only that but this is where it goes to the rest of the world.
And I’ll tell you, what we wouldn’t be where we are if it wouldn’t be for the support that Mayor and members of the City Council that are also here with us – Mr. Councilmember [Juan] Narvaez and Councilmember [Alejandro] Perez – we are very fortunate to have the support that they provide us in order for this city to be such a great city and the number one inland port in the country.
Thank you.
I think right now, we have a process that we work together with Border Patrol, CBP, and everybody to be able to get some of these things done.
The relationship that the city of Laredo has with the federal government with all the law enforcement agencies is a tremendous one. Thank you.
…You have to create – you have to make the people that come in, they have to be legal. Very simple.
They want to do their job. That’s why they invited me. They invited me. I didn’t come here.
The border patrol invited me because they got such a problem.
They want to be able to do their job. If they can’t do their job, believe me, they’re unhappy. They want to be able to do their job.
By the way, the wall will save you a tremendous amount of money, but you absolutely – there are areas you have to have the wall.
The best way to win is for me to get the nomination and run probably against Hillary. Hillary is the worst. Look, easily, she’s the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. She’s going to be beaten and I’m the one to beat her.
And I will take jobs back. And the reason I won with the Hispanic vote and I win all over with the Hispanic vote because they know I’ll take jobs back from China, I’ll take jobs back from Japan, and every other country that’s killing us. I’ll bring the jobs back.
And you know, the Hispanics are get those jobs and they’re going to love Trump and they already do.
Thank you very much.
