
…The people that know me the best, the people of New York where they give us this kind of a vote. And it’s just incredible and I guess we’re close to 70% and we’re going to end at a very high level and get a lot more delegates than anybody projected even in their wildest imaginations.
So I just want to thank everybody here. I want to thank my family.
I want to thank – I really want to thank my team. My team has been amazing. And you know, it’s actually a team of unity. It’s evolving but people don’t understand that. The press does understand it. They just don’t want to talk about it. That’s okay. Just keep talking. It’s very important. Keep talking.
But this has been an incredible evening. It’s been an incredible day and week.
We went all over New York state. New York state has problems like virtually every other state in the union.
Our jobs are being sucked out of our state. They’re being taken out of our country and we’re not going to let it happen anymore. We’re going to stop it.

Very importantly and behind me I have to say we have some of our great businessmen of the world. Carl Icahn is here some place. Where’s Carl?
…But we have our great leaders and it been really something. It has been really something amazing.
And believe me, we are going to use our great business people to negotiate unbelievable trade deals so we bring our jobs back and we don’t let our companies go to Mexico and all of these other countries anymore. We’re going to keep the jobs here.
You’re going to be very proud of this country very soon.
We’re going to build our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before.
Nobody is going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
We’re going to take care of our vets. Our vets are our great people and we have forgotten our vets. Illegal immigrants are taken care of in many cases better than our vets. That’s not going to happen anymore. That is not going to happen.
We’re getting rid of Obamacare. It’s going to be repealed and replaced. It is a total disaster with premiums going up 35%, 55%. It’s going to probably end of its own volition. We’re getting rid of it.
We’re bringing Common Core – we’re knocking it out. We’re cutting it. It’s going to be over. And we’re bringing education locally – local communities are going to take care of their educational needs and people have been waiting for that for a long time.
So with all of the things that have happened, today, tonight, and over the week, I’ll tell you what, this has been an amazing week.
All over New York state – we went to Syracuse, we went to Albany – 20,000 people. You know, on average, we’d have 15,000 to 20,000 people. We went to Rochester. We went to Bethpage. We went all over.
And you know what? The people of this country and the people of this state truly are great and amazing people. We are going to be so strong again.
