
…I’ll read it out for you but I feel very strongly about it. So much can be done and it’s not being done.
They come and they take your vote and then they say we’ll see you in four years. Thanks a lot. We’ll see you in 4 years.
And we’re going to do it differently.
For centuries, the African-American church has been the conscience of our country.
It’s from the pews, pulpits, and Christian teaching of black churches all across the land that the civil rights movements lifted up the soul of our nation.
It’s from these pews that our nation has been inspired toward a better moral character, a deeper concern for mankind, and a spirit of charity and unity that binds us all together.
The African-American faith community has been one of God’s greatest gifts to America and to the American people.
There’s perhaps no action our leaders can take that would do more to heal – and I mean heal – our country and support our people than to provide a greater platform, stronger, greater to the black churches and church goers.
I was in Detroit recently with Bishop Jackson, who is an incredible also, and it was incredible what I saw. The love in that room and I’m not saying the love for me. I’m just saying the love in that room for everybody. And the spirit. Even the song. His wife is a beautiful singer… It was just amazing. I didn’t want to leave.
So it’s great.
You do right every day by your community and your family.
You raise children in the light of God. I will always support your church and defend your right to worship always. I will always be there.
I am here today to listen to your message and I hope my presence here will help and very much help your voice to reach new audiences. It’s going to happen in our country.
And these are people – believe me, there are many people out there that desperately need it.
Church faith is not the past but the present and the future. It is the foundation of progress.
And I pledge to you that if I win. Some people say why if and when. Let’s say if because we have to be realistic. It’s a close race. But if you all go out and vote, we’re going to win.
But I pledge to you we’re going to end the Johnson amendment, which takes away the voice of your pastors, your minister, your great leaders. It takes away their voice. We’re going to end quickly – quickly – the Johnson amendment.
So important. It’s taking away your voice.
Passed in 1954 by a very powerful man, Lyndon Johnson, because he didn’t get along with a certain church, they say, in Houston. Because the pastor was maybe against him, maybe not with him, maybe something was going on.
Shows you the power of Lyndon Johnson. All respect. You have to respect it.  But he had this past that takes away your leaders and your people that you must respect. People like pastor Darrell Scott. He’s not allowed to talk politics. If he does, they take away his tax exemption.
So what they’re doing is they’re silencing your leaders. They’re silencing the people that you want to hear.
It’s not fair because they’re the people I want to hear also.
So we’re going to get rid of the Johnson.
As I campaign all across this nation…I will have an opportunity to lay out my plans for economic change.
I will have a chance to discuss school choice, which is so important, and how to put every American on the ladder to success, meaning a great education and a great job.

But today I just want to let you know that I am here to listen. To you, I’m going to listen, and I’m always going to listen.
It’s a promise that I make. I’m running to be President for all Americans – every single one.
Our nation is too divided.
We talk past each other constantly, not to each other.
And to those who seek office, we do not do enough to step in to the community and learn what is happening and what is going on. They don’t do it. Again, they want your vote and they’re gone.
I’m here today to learn so that we can together remedy injustice in all of its many very unattractive forms.
Our political system has failed the people and works only to enrich itself. I want to reform that system so that it works for you, all of you.
I believe true reform can only come from outside the system, from outside the establishment.
Becoming the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln has been the greatest honor of my life. It’s on his legacy that I hope to build the future of our party.
I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time, one that insures the right to a good education and the right to live in safety and in peace.
It also means the right, so true, so, so unsafe. When you see people being shot in the streets walking to a store with their child, often times, their child being shot for no reason whatsoever, so sad.
It also means the right to have a government that protects our workers and fights for our jobs.
I want to rebuild our country and I want to rebuild our inner cities, it’s time, it’s time.
It breaks my heart to see any American left behind or to see a city like Cleveland that has had so many struggles.
Nothing is more sad than when we sideline young Americans with unfulfilled potential.
You look at somebody like Don King where he’s become so successful. He just broke that system. He wouldn’t take no. I mean he’s an amazing inspiration to so many people, including me.
Our whole country loses out. We’re one nation, and when any one hurts, we all hurt together. That’s the way it is. That’s the way it should be too.
We are all brothers and sisters, and we’re all created, all everyone, created by the same God.
We must love each other and support each other, and we’re all in this together.
I fully understand that the African-American community has suffered from discrimination and that there are many wrongs that must still be made right.
I want to make America prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic envy of the world, here in Detroit and Baltimore and there’s so many places.
We have so much work to do. Factories everywhere, new roads, new bridges, new schools, new hope. We’re going to bring our jobs back. Our jobs have been taken away by inept politicians that don’t know what they’re doing. Our companies have left and gone to Mexico and other places.
We’re going to bring our jobs back. Believe me. And it’s not even going to be hard.
I have been so greatly blessed in so many ways with no greater blessing than my family. I have a wonderful family.
Nothing would make me happier than to use what I have learned in business and in traveling the world – I have been all over – to bring wealth and prosperity and opportunity to those who have not had these opportunities before.
When I see wages falling – and falling big league – people were making more money 18 years ago in many cases than they’re making today and today they’re working harder. They have two jobs. It’s not supposed to be that way.

I know the hardships this inflicts, and I’m determined to do something about it.
Please know this: For any who are hurting, things are going to turn and turn for the better.
We are going to win again as a country, and we are going to win again for all of our people, not just certain segments of our people, for all of our people.
I want to work with you to renew the bonds of trust between citizens and the bonds of faith that make our nation strong.
America’s been lifted out of many of its most difficult hours through the miracle of faith. And you people understand that very well. Everybody in this room understands, which is one of the reasons you’re here.
Now in these hard times, for our country, let us turn again to our Christian heritage to lift up the soul of our nation.
I am so deeply grateful to be here today, and it’s my prayer that America and the America of tomorrow will be one of unity, togetherness, peace and love. We can do that.
I’d like to conclude with a passage from 1st John Chapter 4: “No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us.” So true.
So pastor, I want to thank you. I want thank the congregation. This has been a really great honor for me and we have some interesting days ahead.
We will have a little debate on Monday night. A couple of you might be watching it. Anybody going to watch it?
And we have a very big election coming up on Nov. 8th, so hopefully you’ll get out and vote.
But again, to the African-American community, to the Hispanic community, to all communities I wanted to just say we’re going to make it right. We’re going to make it great.
Thank you. Thank you, all. Thank you, all.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
We have to have choice. Choice is a must, and we have to end Common Core and bring education local. Common Core is a disaster.
And we’re going to have great education in our country. We don’t have it now. But choice  very important. Very, very important.
And Common Core has to be ended. We’re bringing education local, meaning our loving parents and all of the professionals, we’re going to do it on a local basis not with the bureaucrats.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, one of the ways is places just like this. You see what’s going on in this room.
And you have everybody in this room. You have Asian. You have white. You have black. You have everybody right here. And you see what’s happening.
So the churches are so important and all of our religious institutions.
And the other thing, we have to stop the drugs from pouring in from across the border.
We have a tremendous drug problem in Cleveland, in Ohio, in North Carolina, in South Carolina, and in New Hampshire. There’s a tremendous problem. Heroin. Particular in New Hampshire.
But we are – our country’s being poisoned and it’s pouring in across the southern border. And we are going to stop it, believe me.
You know the border patrol agents are great. 16,500 they endorse us recently. They endorsed Trump. First time they ever endorsed a presidential candidate.
We are going to stop the drugs from poisoning our youth from poisoning our country. It’s just poisoning our youth.

Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, you know it’s not even about a conservative agenda.
You’ve been trying and working in the inner cities with the Democrats for so many years. Sometimes over a hundred years. There are actually communities so and they’re a disaster. The schools, the safety, the jobs, it’s all horrible.
I mean, in some cases they’re less safe than places like Afghanistan. You know, we hear about Afghanistan. Some of the inner cities are less safe.
So, I just tell you this. We are going to make such headway, such a change, and you know they’re not gonna to do it. Because Darrell, they have been doing it for 50, 60 – some were I mean minimum was like 32 I think. There’s one said 32. Unbroken. Unbroken.
And I I say that and some people I told you before some people love it and some people don’t like it that much. What do you have to lose? Can’t get any worse. It really can’t. The inner cities cannot get much worse. Perhaps they can, but not much. And I will fix it.
What do you have to lose? I will fix it. So we’re going to change it.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, we have NAFTA and these agreements – these trade deals are the worst deals anybody ever negotiated.
NAFTA is destroyed country. It’s destroyed our manufacturing. Our manufacturing has gone to Mexico and all these other countries.
And we’re gonna renegotiate those deals and we’re gonna make ‘em either very good and very fair or we’re going to terminate ‘em. We’ll start all over again. Believe me. We’re gonna bring our jobs back. We’re gonna bring our companies back that have left us, fired all their employees. We’re gonna bring ‘em back.
So that will be the thing maybe I originally started on that and illegal immigration. And we have to stop the illegal immigration by the way. We have to stop illegal immigration.
And Hillary Clinton is not in any way, shape, or form capable of doing that.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, I can tell you a number of the ways are by getting you folks – Darrell, all of you and Ben Carson and everybody – totally involved with the communities because right now you don’t have any involvement with Washington. Very little.
And the involvement that you have, which is a Common Core involvement, the involvement that you have is not a good involvement.
We’re gonna be very much involved with the inner cities and we’re gonna create incentives for the inner cities so that the inner cities can grow and produce jobs.
And we’re gonna bring our jobs back from all these countries that have stolen ‘em like we’re a bunch of babies. It’s like candy being taken away from a baby. That’s the way they took it. And we’re not gonna let that happen anymore.
Many of you folks have had great jobs that you don’t have anymore your company is gone. And you’ve never been able to replace that great job you had when you were younger.
And we are going to bring our companies back and we’re gonna bring our jobs back believe me.
It is to a large extent about jobs.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Yes, the answer is yes. You know as a …[inaudible] with yourself. Wow. Beautiful. Beautiful.
You know that question and that response is amazing because I get it in so many places and you’ll hear about these never-Trumpers, who are dying. Right now they’re on a respirator, okay?

Donald Trump:
Because the unity has become incredible.
Just today in the Wall Street Journal – they have an amazing story about – amazing Wall Street Journal story today – about all of the support that we’re getting, and from lots of rich people even. They’re coming in.
You know, these were “never Trump, never Trump, never Trump”, and now, they’re believing.
They see lower taxes. They see cutting the regulations. They see job-creation, which is so important. And it’s really been amazing.
And one of the things that they see, and that you people see, is that it’s so important – the judges.
So, I picked 11 judges very much into the world of the Constitution. Because we have – we have people that in some cases – I think in all cases – that will, the Constitution will have no bearing on their decisions, okay, if somebody else gets it.
And we picked 11, and we’re adding 9 more. We’re going to have a total of 20 people, and I will pick from that group of 20 people. These are 20 outstanding people.
The rest of them – already 11 have been named, we’re adding nine more who are terrific. Very much Federalist Society choices, Heritage and Federalists. And they’re really, really amazing judges.
And I will pick from that group.
And these judges- you know we lost Judge Scalia- and these judges are very much the mold of Judge Scalia.
So, I think it’s very important – so important. So important.
This election, those people and those Republicans that aren’t helping – they should be ashamed of themselves. They should be ashamed of themselves.
Question:
[Omitted]
Donald Trump:
Well, as you know, I’m a tremendous believer in the police and law enforcement because we need that for ourselves. We need that.
And, I’ve already gotten the endorsement from so many different groups. And, they’re great people, great people.
Now, great people – you always have problems. You have somebody in there that either makes a mistake, that’s bad, or that chokes.
I must tell you. I watched the shooting in particular in Tulsa. And that man was hands up. That man went to the car hands up, put his hands on the car. And to me, it looked like he did everything you’re supposed to do.
And he looked like a really good man, and maybe I’m a little clouded because I saw his family talking about him after the fact. So, you get a little bit different image, maybe, but to me he looked like, you know, somebody who was doing what they were asking him to do.
And, this young officer – I don’t know what she was thinking. I don’t know what she was thinking, but I’m very, very troubled by that. I’m very, very troubled by that.
And, we have to very – we have to be very careful.
So, I mean, these things are terrible. In my opinion that was a terrible – a terrible situation.
And, we’ve seen others, we’ve seen others. And, the police are aware of that, too.
By the way, the police are troubled by it, too. They look at it…Now, did she get scared? Was she choking? What happened?
But, maybe people like that, people that choke, maybe they can’t be doing what they’re doing. Okay? They can’t be doing stuff like that.
So, we all respect our police greatly, and they will just have to get better and better and better.
Thank you.
