
…[inaudible]
…One of the top Department of Justice officials, the Assistant Attorney General, is a close associate of Podesta. The two met for dinner after Clinton testified about Benghazi and Podesta described him as the man who kept him out of jail. Works for the Justice Department.
Has our country ever had a situation like it’s going on right now? Have we ever had anything like it?
This is a good time to make an important public service announcement because a lot of things have happened over the last few days.
This is a message for any Democratic voter who have already cast their ballot for Hillary Clinton and who are having a bad case of buyer’s remorse.
In other words, you want to change your vote.
Wisconsin is one of several states where you can change your early ballot if you think you’ve made a mistake.
A lot of stuff has come out since your vote.
So if you live here or in Michigan or in Pennsylvania or in Minnesota, those four places, you can change your vote to Donald Trump. We’ll make America great again. Okay?
She is not going to make America great. She will never make America great.
The Clintons are the sort of past. We are the bright future. And I say we, we, we.
I’m a messenger. I’m only a messenger. Remember. I’m only a messenger. But you have to say I’m doing a pretty good job as a messenger. But I’m the messenger.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability to our government. Finally.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we are all here to say.
When we win on Nov. 8th, we are going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
You know, I’ve said this before but it was very interesting because when I first heard the statement, I said, “Give me a break. I hate it.”
…I said it, people went crazy. Then I went to a rally with 18,000 people, I said it, they went totally crazy. And then I said it again and again. This has only been going on for a week and a half, and now I love it. I love this statement. And it is very accurate. It is very accurate.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.

Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. It’s so true. Can you believe it in this country?
43% of African-American school age children live in poverty.
32% of Hispanic school age children live in poverty.
This is our country. This is unacceptable in America.
I will fix it. I will fix it. I will fix it.
I’ve been saying a lot and I’ve been saying and speaking very openly about the inner-cities and saying to the African-American community, the Hispanic community, I’ve been saying “What do you have to lose?” It’s such a disaster. What do you have to lose?
Thank you. We’re going to fix it.
We’re going to bring back great schools.
We’re going to stop the crime. The crime is unbelievable.
We’re going to bring back your jobs.
What do you have to lose? We’re going to fix it.
As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization. We will replace decades of failure with generations of success. We’re going to have generations of success.
America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary’s NAFTA. You know about that. One-third of your jobs.
You know, we have a highway – one-way highway right into Mexico and these other countries. They get the jobs. They get the plants. They get the money. We get the unemployments and the drugs. Not a good deal. That’s going to be changed around, folks. Going to be changed around.
I mean, you listen to this where America has lost – oh, we’re going to build the wall. Don’t worry about it. We’re going to build the wall. That’s not even close.
And Mexico’s going to pay for the wall and they understand that. They understand that.
America has lost – listen to this because it’s impossible. I’ve been saying for two weeks. I just got this stat. For two weeks, I’ve been saying, “Oh, that’s a typo. That’s some kind of an error. Can’t be possible.”
America has lost 70,000 factories. 70,000. I thought they meant 700. I said you have a mistake here. Maybe 7,000. America has lost 70,000 factories because of politicians that don’t know what they’re doing or they’re controlled by special interests.
Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, we are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That’s what’s happening to our country. We’re being treated like we’re stupid people.
We have leaders that don’t know what they’re doing. We have leaders that don’t have a clue.
It’s the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That’s what’s happened to us.
Hutchinson Technology laid off 411 workers right here and moved their jobs to Thailand.
Honeywell laid off 974 workers making printed circuit boards in Chippewa Falls. Their jobs – oh, you won’t be clapping for this. Their jobs went to China.
This is a federal problem because Scott and these people have kept so many of these places but they’re – it’s very hard. It’s very hard. Because we don’t fight with our real tools.
Meaning if you make your products, you want to come back, not going to be so easy. You’re going to pay a nice big fat tax on that product coming in.
TTM Technologies laid off 166 workers and most of them went into Mexico and other places.
Lots of jobs going to China. Lots of jobs going to Japan. Lots of jobs going to South Korea. And unbelievable numbers of jobs and plants and factories and everything else going into Mexico.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Wisconsin. We’ll work with your governor, who’s a great, great governor, and we’re going to stop it. We’re going to stop it.
The theft – and that’s what it is – of American prosperity will come to a very rapid end.
From now on, it’s going to be America first.

A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we will stand up to foreign product dumping all over, currency manipulation, and all of the unfair subsidy behavior that’s going all over our country.
Makes it impossible, impossible, for our businesses to compete. They’ll be competing very soon.
We will also immediately stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. That will be a disaster.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we’re going to lower taxes on American businesses from 35% down to 15%.
We’re the highest-taxed nation in the world.
We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
In Chicago, 3,664 people have been shot since Jan. 1st of this year. Can you believe that?
That’s worse than the places you read about and see in the Middle East. These are war zones.
We have places that are more dangerous.
In Milwaukee, homicides have risen to their highest level in more than 20 years.
Nationwide, murders have experienced their largest single year increase in 45 years.
You don’t hear that from the dishonest media. They don’t tell you that. They don’t tell you that. They don’t tell you that.
They’re there for one reason. They want to protect certain people like Hillary. It’s getting hard to protect her, fellas. It’s getting very hard. It’s getting very, very hard to protect her. Getting very hard to protect her. She’s out of control.
A Trump administration will work with local and federal law enforcement to end this growing crime wave. We have a crime wave.
Every child in America has the right to grow up in safety and in peace.
And we will also keep you safe from terrorism.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syria refugees flowing into our country. Who can even believe it?
Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities.
When I’m elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. We have no choice.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And as I said and as you know, we’re not playing games. Yes, we will build the wall.
And the fact that it’s 110 degrees in this room, I don’t care. Think of it as a sauna. This room was not designed for this many people. Think of it as the sauna and to use the sauna you have to pay money. We get this for nothing.
We’ve received the first ever endorsement from our I.C.E. and border patrol officers. First time they’ve ever endorsed.
16,500 great amazing people.
They tell us the border crisis is the worst it’s ever been. You’ve been reading about it. It’s a national emergency. It’s the worst it’s ever been right now.
You know, you try and get some stats. They don’t want to give you the stats.
The worst it’s ever been right now. Just about as bad as it gets.

Hillary has pledged totally open borders. There goes your country. Which truly would mean the destruction of the United States in a true sense.
The immigration officers warned in a letter when they endorsed me that Hillary’s plan is “the most radical immigration proposal in the United States’s history” and that it would “lead to the loss of thousands of thousands of lives.”
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries very intelligently would not take them back.
They don’t want to take back murderers, drug lords, gang members. They say no.
And let me just tell you something. They would bring them to their country. Their country would say, “No, get them out. Bring them back to the United States where your leaders are stupid people. Bring them back to the United States.”
Let me tell you, that won’t happen whether it’s four years or eight years. That won’t happen once if I’m president. Not once.
One such criminal was set free on Hillary’s watch went on to kill a young American girl, a fantastic young woman named Casey Chadwick, you probably read about her.
The killer who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head previously and who people were begging to incarcerate or send out of our country should have been sent home. Instead he was set free and stabbed in the face and neck 15 different times and stuffed her body in a closet.
People were begging that he’d be sent out.
Well, we’re going to make America safe again, believe me.
That’s one of many. One of many. So many different stories.
Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary cities like in San Francisco, where the incredible Kate Steinle, the incredible woman, was killed in her father’s arms by a five-time deported illegal immigrant.
A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities. We will deport all criminal aliens, stop the drugs from pouring into our communities, and we will end this long nightmare of violence like we’ve never seen before.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice. We have no choice.
That includes great support for nearby Fort McCoy.
I’m honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. It’s a great group nobody has like we have, whether it’s law enforcement, the military, the veterans.
And we are going to take care of our veterans, folks.
Our new foreign policy will put America first.
Hillary brought disaster to Iraq. Just total disaster. To Iraq, Syria, Libya.
She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS with the great void that was created by the way her and President Obama – the campaigner. I call him the campaigning…
Instead of campaigning for Hillary Clinton, where he’s probably now got a conflict in campaigning for her, he ought to focus on bringing jobs back into our country, focus on getting rid of ISIS, focus on lots of other things.
Now, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, a conflict with a nuclear armed Russia that could frankly, for all we know, it could trigger World War III. For what?
Hillary and her failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that never end and that we never win. Remember that. They never end and we never win.
And now, the Middle East is in worse shape than ever before. We could have built our country twice.

We could have rebuilt the United States with $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt it twice.
They dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They have left our borders wide open at home. And they’ve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
To all Americans I say it is now time finally for new leadership for change.
Thank you.
In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And she is going to raise your taxes substantially. Remember that.
We are going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.
We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order. There are plenty of them. There are plenty of them. There are plenty of them.
We will rebuild our military and we will take care of our great, great veterans. We’re going to take care of them. They’ve been treated terribly, terribly. Our veterans have been treated terribly.
Thank you.
We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We’re bringing our education local.
We will support the great men and women of law enforcement. That will take place quickly.
…The National Rifle Association – NRA – endorsed me, the earliest endorsement they’ve ever given to anybody running for president.
We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege. We’re going to save our Second Amendment, folks.
And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can’t change, and wants our lives to revolve around Washington D.C.
I am asking you to dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of this great country.
I’m tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean another decade. America is tired of waiting.
The moment is now.
There has never been a movement like this in our country’s history. There never will be perhaps.
But we have to take advantage of it on Nov. 8th. We’re going to turn things around and rapidly. And rapidly.
All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country.

There is no challenge too great and no dream outside of our reach. There is not.
There’s no dream outside of our reach.
Don’t let anyone tell you it can’t be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and she’s accomplished nothing. She’s just made things worse.
She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We are. We are.
Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life.
We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters of which there are many. There are many.
We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power should rule the day for our country.
And I’ve been on the other side and I understand the other side. Perhaps I understand it better than anybody else.
But I love our country and I saw what was happening to our country. And I made the right decision because boy, did I become an outsider quickly. That I could tell you.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
We are fighting to unlock the tremendous potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future, and it will happen.
With your vote, we are just – listen to this, after all of this time – one week – one week. Do you believe it?
This started on June 16th. June 16th.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody.
I will not disappoint you. That I promise. That I promise. You won’t be disappointed.
This great movement started on June 16th of last year and now we’re one week away. Think of it, one week from the change you’re waiting for your entire life. One week away.
So on Nov. 8th, go out. Don’t disappoint yourselves, your families. Don’t worry about me. We have to do it. We really have to do it.
Because together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
God bless you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
