Sen. Bernie Sanders held a hearing yesterday examining the impact of the 2007 recession on older Americans, particularly those heavily reliant on Social Security and Medicare benefits.
U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT). PHOTO SOURCE: help.senate.gov
“This country, as I think we all know, is in the midst of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Sixteen percent of our people are unemployed or under-employed. Median family income has declined by over $3,000 in the last decade, and almost of all of new income has gone to the people at the very top – the top 1%.
“In the midst of all of this, it is enormously important that we ask a question that has not been asked enough in my opinion. And that is what does this recession mean for older Americans? How are they faring in the midst of this terrible recession? What is the employment situation for people in their 60s? Most working Americans expect to be working throughout their entire lives. How many workers in their 60s have lost their jobs, have seen a decline in their incomes? And very importantly, how many older American workers who have lost their jobs are never ever going to get another job? What does that mean to the economy? What does it mean to the standard of living of that worker, both economically and psychologically. If you anticipated working until a retirement age of 65 and now you’re 61, and you’re never going to get another job in your life. That’s one of the issues that we are going to be talking about today.
“Another very important question that I don’t think has been asked enough that needs some answers today is how do you survive economically in these tough times if say you get $12,000 in Social Security and that’s all or virtually all of your income and you don’t receive a COLA [cost of living adjustment] for the last two years? What does that mean to you?
“Furthermore, and this is an enormously important issue that needs a whole lot of discussion, does the current formulation for Social Security COLAs adequately reflect the purchasing habits of senior citizens? I can tell you that in Vermont I hear over and over again from senior citizens who tell me, “Bernie, I don’t quite understand how they think that there has been no inflation when my prescription drug costs are soaring, my health care costs are soaring, and we don’t get a COLA.” Is the current formulation regarding COLAs adequate? That becomes very important because I think tomorrow or the very near future we’re going to be hearing what COLAs, if any, our seniors will be receiving. Is the current formulation adequate or do we need a new formulation that better reflects the purchasing needs of seniors?
“According to information that we will be receiving today, and this is really rather stunning, the bottom 20% of senior citizens in our country live on incomes of less than $12,080 a year. Let me repeat that: bottom 20% of seniors in this country – millions of people – live on incomes of less than $12,080 a year. In fact, the average income for a senior in the bottom 20% is about $7,500. I hope our distinguished panelists will explain to me and the American people how any person in this country, let alone a senior with specific needs often regarding health care, can survive in the year 2011 on $7,500 a year.
“Now importantly, and let’s be frank about this, as many Americans know, there is a major effort on the part of some in Congress, especially in the Republican-led House of Representatives, to make major cuts in Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, the LIHEAP [Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program] heating assistance program, community health centers, affordable housing, nutrition programs. Now if these cuts were to take place, what impact would they have on seniors?
“Now, my office learned yesterday that Sen. [Rand] Paul, the ranking member, would not be here this morning, and I’m disappointed by that. I hope he or some other Republicans will, in fact, come to this hearing this morning to talk about these important issues, because I’ll tell you it is very easy to get up on the floor of the Senate and to announce how you’re in favor of cutting Social Security, cutting Medicare, cutting Medicaid, cutting heating assistance, but it may be a little bit harder to learn what the impact those cuts will mean on real human beings, what kind of suffering will take place, and how many people perhaps will die as a result of those cuts.
“So this is an important hearing, and I look very much forward to hearing the testimony from the GAO and from our other distinguished panelists.”

…As Vermont’s Senator in my political career, I have done hundreds of town meetings in the state of Vermont, and it is great to do a town meeting here in New Hampshire.
And the reason that I do town meetings and I think the reason why St. Anselm holds meetings like this in the Institute of Politics is I think that there is an understanding that the way we do politics in this country very often is basically not the right way.
The smartest guy in the world cannot talk about the major problems facing this country in a 5 second soundbite, and the media does a disservice to us and to our nation when they look at politics as an American Idol show – who’s going to win, who’s ahead, who’s up today and who’s down tomorrow.
The problems are serious, and if we take our responsibilities seriously as American citizens, we need to talk about the real issues, respect each other’s different point of view, and learn from each other.
Let me begin by telling you a little bit about myself and about my political history, which is very different I think than most folks in the United States Senate.
I started off my life living in Brooklyn, New York. You all heard of that town south of here. [Laughter]
And my dad was a paint salesman. That’s what he did his whole life. He came to America from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket and he didn’t end his life with a lot more than that. He worked very hard, never made a whole lot of money.
But it turned out not being very political – we were not a political family – he ended up, I perceived as I grew older, how much he loved this country, and he loved this country because it gave him the freedom to raise two kids. He never went to – didn’t graduate high school but his kids graduated college. That was a pretty big deal in our family.
And he had financial security in the sense that he always had a job. Never any money but he had a job. And that meant something to somebody who started off without any money.
I went to the state of Vermont just about 50 years ago, which was the best decision I have ever made in my life. That’s great.
And in the early 1970s, I ran for statewide office. Sen. Winston Prouty – some of you may remember he had passed away. There was a special election and I contested that election. And I ran really hard all over the state and on election day, I ended up with 2% of the vote.
But I was a persistent guy. I wasn’t going to give up in one election. Then we had the regular election in ’72 and I ran on a third party – third party – and I got 1% of the vote. Still, not being the smartest guy in the world and not knowing when to quit, came back and ran for Senate again and I got 4%.
I ran for governor of Vermont in ’76 and got 6% of the vote.
And then I did figure out that was enough, that was enough. I got a clue – all running on a third party without any money.
But then back in 1981, a friend of mine came up to me, and he said “You know, there’s a race for mayor in Burlington” where I lived, and Burlington as you all know in New Hampshire is the largest city in the state of Vermont. It has only 40,000 people, but it is our largest city, beautiful city.
And he said, “You know, looking over the election results for the last time you ran, while you only got 6% of the votes statewide, you got 12% in Burlington and there was some low-income and working wards where you got more than that. You got 12%. You got 14%. And maybe you should run for mayor.”
So we got some people together and we thought about it. And I decided to do it, running as an independent, running as an independent.
And I was taking on at that point back in 1981 an incumbent mayor who had served 5 terms, and nobody – nobody – that this Democratic mayor was – that one could beat him.
And the point that I want to make is not that I won the election by all of 10 votes to everybody’s great shock. That was after the recount. There was 14; it went down to 10. But that how we won that election became a political lesson that has stayed with me for my whole life.
Nobody thought that we had a chance and what we did is we put together a coalition. You all know what a coalition politics is about? It’s kind of an old phrase, not much in vogue now.
But what we did is we said to the low-income people in the city who did not think they were getting a fair shake in terms of city services, “We’re going to stand with you.” In fact, I did press conferences in low-income housing projects.
And we talked to the union – the union workers, who work for the city – the AFSME, the police union, and the fire union. We said, “Look, you’re working hard. You deserve a fair shake in terms of contract negotiations.”
And we talked to women who had never had an opportunity to get into city hall at that time and we said, “We’re going to open the door to everybody – working people, low-income people, and women. You’re not represented at city hall, and we’re going to do that.”
And we talked to the environmentalists in the community who were concerned by a number of projects that were anti-environmental.
And we put together this strange coalition. It was so strange. I often worried about what would happen if we got them all in the same room at the same time because they were very different people. But they have the belief that we should open the doors of government, that we should allow everybody in, that government should not just work for the downtown, for the big money interest but it should work for all people.
And we won that election. We won that election by 10 votes.
Now, I am very proud by what I accomplished as the mayor of Burlington. I think many of you have been to Burlington. Great city.
But of all of my accomplishments as mayor and of all of the many accomplishments that I am proud of that I did when I was in the House and that I’m doing in the Senate, probably the very, very top of that list is one that most people – most media people – would think is irrelevant. But here’s what that accomplishment was: We doubled voter turnout from 1981 to 1983. [Applause]
Now, how did we do that and what is that lesson for today?

What exists all over America today is that millions and millions and millions of people – working people, low-income people, young people – they look at the political process and they say, “Not for me. I don’t know what these guys are doing but it’s sure is not relevant to my life. And no, I’m not going to vote.”
And so we have millions of people who don’t vote. Or we do have other people who go into the polling booth, they hold their nose, and they vote for what they perceive to be the lesser of two evils. Or we have other people who will vote for this or that issue; somebody would get them going on this issue or that issue.
But what we did in Burlington – and it’s a lesson that I’ve never forgotten – is that if in fact you listened to what people have to say and what they need and you do your best – and it’s hard and you’re not perfect and you make mistakes and you can’t always do everything you want. But if people know you are listening to their needs and you fight for them, you know what? They participate in the political process. They come out to vote. [Applause]
And we ended up winning in Burlington. We took on Democrats. We took on Republicans. And we ended up winning 2 to 1 in the low-income and working class wards of the city.
And that lesson has always stayed with me. How in fact do you make government relevant to all of the people in a democratic society? How do you involve people in the process? How do you stand up and fight for ordinary Americans?

Now, my view is – and what I’m going to be talking to you about today – is that our great country – and we all love our country and we worry about our country – that our great country today probably has more serious problems than at any time since the Great Depression in the 1930s. And if you throw in what the scientific community tells us that climate change is real, that it is already causing devastating problems, and that it is likely to get worse unless we reverse and cut back on greenhouse gas emissions, if you throw that in, we may have more serious problems today than at any time in the modern history of this country.
And at the center of what those problems are – what people perceive, what every poll tells us – is that people understand the sad reality that the great middle class of this country, which was once the envy of the entire world, that middle class is disappearing.
And people understand that millions of people are now falling into poverty, that we have more people living in poverty today than at any time in the history of the United States of America.
And people understand that real unemployment – if you include those people who have given up looking for work and people who are working part-time when they want to work full-time – they understand that real unemployment is not 6.5% but it is close to 12%. The youth unemployment is near 20%; African-American youth unemployment almost doubled that.
And people understand because they are living the reality that millions of Americans today despite a huge increase in productivity, despite all of the robotics and all of the space age technology, and all of the increase in productivity so that the average worker today is producing more – people understand and know because it is their lives that they are working longer hours for lower wages. And that many people in my state and in your state they’re not working; they’re working two jobs; they’re working three jobs trying to cobble together an income and maybe some health insurance.
And people understand when we talk about health care that there is something profoundly wrong that in this great nation we are the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right of citizenship. [Applause]
Now, there are a lot of angry people out there. They’re angry in Vermont. They’re angry in New Hampshire. They’re angry in Mississippi, California. All over this country.
And what they are angry about – and I’m going to bore you with some statistics – but I think it’s important that you hear it.
They are angry that since 1999 the typical middle class family has seen its income go down by more than $5,000 after adjusting for inflation. Got that? People are working hard. Why is their income going down?
They’re angry because that same typical middle-class family – that family right in the middle – earn less income last year than it earned 25 years ago, and maybe that’s an issue we might want to be chatting about a little.
They are angry because the typical male worker made $283 less last year than he did 44 years ago.
So you see these guys and they are angry and they are furious. They don’t quite know where their anger should go but they’re angry. That’s why – they’re working but their incomes are going down.
Typical female workers earn $1,700 less last year than they did in 2007 despite all of the increases in productivity.
And people are angry and they are frightened and very, very nervous about the fact that half of all Americans have less than $10,000 in their savings account. Can you imagine that? Half of all Americans. That means you’re one automobile accident away from disaster, one illness away from disaster.
And when people are 50 and 55 and 60 and they’re thinking about retirement and they have $10,000 in the bank, they’re pretty nervous about the future of their lives.
Today in America, over 5.5 million young people have either dropped out of high school or graduated high school and they have no jobs and they are hanging out on street corners in Vermont and New Hampshire and California and states all over this country.
And a lot of these kids with no jobs, with no future, are doing destructive or self-destructive activities. And I don’t have to talk to you about heroin or opiate addiction. And I don’t have to tell you that there’s something fundamentally wrong in our country when we end up with having more people in jail than China or any other country on Earth. [Applause]
And when people look about what’s happening in America, when they go shopping in the store. They get angry because when they go shopping and they try to buy a product – a holiday gift – and they look at the label and they say where does that come from, and it comes from China, it comes Vietnam, it comes from Mexico. And meanwhile, they look at their own communities and they know that factories that used to pay workers a living wage have long been gone. The corporations taking advantage of our disastrous trade policies shut down in America even if they were profitable here, and they go to China or other countries where they can pay people low, low wages.
Not so many years ago, General Motors was the largest private employer in the United States of America. And they paid their workers, who were unionized, good wages and good benefits.
Today, the largest private sector employer is Wal-Mart – vehemently anti-union – who pay their workers low-wages with minimal benefits.
And if you want to look at the transformation of the American economy, you can look at it from being a General Motors economy producing real products, paying workers real wages with good benefits to a Wal-Mart economy – anti-union, low wages, minimal benefits. [Applause]

In terms of education – and I think we all understand that the nation does not go forward, we do not compete effectively in the global economy, we don’t do the important things unless we’re a well-educated nation.
It used to be not so many years ago that the United States ranked first in the world in terms of the percentage of our people who graduated college. Today, we are I believed tied for 15th place.
Hundreds of thousands of young people – bright young people – have given up on the dream of going to college because they simply can’t afford it or because they don’t want to leave school $30,000 or $40,000 or $50,000 in debt.
And perhaps most sadly and most fundamentally is that people – middle-age people, working families – they shake their heads not only in terms of the stress of what is happening to their own lives but even more significantly they worry about their kids and their grandchildren. And they ask themselves is it going to happen for the first time in the modern history of America that our kids are going to have a lower standard of living than our generation? Or are our kids going to be able to go out into the world and get a job with a living wage? In fact, are our kids going to be able to go out and find any job at all?
Do you know what it means for a kid who graduates high school who can’t find a job in one year, in two years, in three years? You know what that does to that kid, that kid’s entire life? And that’s what parents are worrying about.

…About health care. One or two things about this Affordable Care Act, this revolutionary communist socialist plot. [Laughter] As I think many of you know, the concept of the Affordable Care Act came from Republican think tanks and it was implemented by their well-known communist Mitt Romney a few miles south of here. [Laughter]
I voted for it, with hesitation, but I voted for it among other reasons because I was able to get $10 billion in it to expand community health centers all over this country and get some other provisions in there for disease provision and make it easier for people to get to medical schools and pay their medical bill so we can deal with primary health care. [Applause]
But let me be very clear. I think the Affordable Care Act has been a modest success. Obviously the roll out was a disaster and that’s all anyone could talk about, our Republican friends could talk about. Five years from now, nobody cares about the roll out, nobody cares about a stupid website. What people care is whether human beings in this country are actually being able to go to a doctor when they need to.
There was a study some years ago at Harvard University, and what they told us is that 45,000 Americans die each year because they don’t get to a doctor when they should. And I talked to a whole lot of doctors, and everyone of them will tell you, “She walked into my office, and she was really sick. And I said ‘Why didn’t you come in here 6, 8 months ago?’ She goes ‘Well, I didn’t have any health insurance. I didn’t want any charity.’ By the time she walked into that room, it was too late.” All over the country, that is what happens.
As a nation, we have got to ask ourselves a very simple question with regard to health care. How does it happen that in this nation, we end up spending almost twice as much per person on health care as do the people in any other country yet we end up with 40 million people with no health insurance, even more, including people in this room, who are under-insured who have large co-payments and deductibles. Is that correct? All right.
And yet, at the end of that, our health care outcomes compared to other countries in terms of infant mortality, in terms of longevity are not particularly good.
And the answer is that to a very significant degree, what health care in America is about is making money for private health insurance companies. [Applause]
So I believe the Affordable Care Act is a modest step forward, but we’ve got take a bigger step and that is recognize that health care in the year 2014 must be a right of all people. I believe we should move to a Medicare for all, single payer program. [Applause]

I said a word before about education. I’ll just add a few words to that.
Education is what life is about. Education is what life is about if you’re 90 and it’s what life is about when you’re old.
Every psychologist who has studied the issue – not a debate anymore – understands that the most important formative years of a human being’s life are 0 to 4, and every psychologist who has written about the issue understands that if kids at that age get the emotional and intellectual nourishment that they need, they would do much better than if that was not the case.
And yet, despite all of that knowledge, today in New Hampshire, today in Vermont, today all over America, millions of working families are struggling to find affordable, quality child care, and they can’t do it because it’s just too expensive, and the result is that millions of kids have inadequate child care or pre-school education.
And the great disgrace is we are paying our child care workers minimum wages in many cases – low wages without benefits. What kind of priority is that when we entrust little kids’ lives to these folks and we don’t give them the training, we don’t give them the income, we don’t give them the benefits they need to make that into the kind of important career it should be. [Applause]
And I think maybe we might learn something in terms of education from countries like Germany, Denmark, Finland, Sweden. And you know what they say – and they have said it for a very long time in other countries – they have said that in a competitive global economy they understand they need the best educated workforce possible. And what they understand is that it is insane, that it is self-destructive to say to working class kids, “Well, sorry, you may be really smart. You may be really energetic. But guess what? You can’t afford to go to college. That’s the way it is. Or if you do go to college, you’re going to come out $50,000 in debt.”
Maybe we can learn something from countries all over the world who say that you will get a college education without costs regardless of what your income is. [Applause]
And just think – think of what that means to kids here in Manchester, Vermont, in Manchester, New Hampshire, and Manchesters all over the country when kids who are in the fifth or sixth grade know and have been told that if they do well in school, if they studied, they are going to be able to go to college, they are going to be able to make it into the middle-class. Just doing that can transform education for all over this country.

I want to say another word on an issue which is very troubling to me, and it’s an interesting issue because it’s brought some strange bedfellows together.
You know, we pride ourselves on being a free society. And we need a serious national conversation about what that means. What does it really mean?
Are you a free society if every telephone call that you make ends up in an NSA file? I don’t think so.
Are you living in freedom if some of your email exchanges are intercepted or there is knowledge on the part of the government about the websites that you visit?
I don’t think so, and that is why I voted against the USA Patriot Act and the re-authorization of USA Patriot Act. [Applause]
So we have obviously got to be vigilant against terrorism. It is a very serious issue. But I do not think we have to undermine the Constitution of the United States to do that.
Let me touch on – I keep saying this important issue and that. Everyone of these issues is gigantically important and we could talk about it for hours onto itself. But there’s one that sticks out having to do whether or not does the planet really survive and that is the issue of climate change.
Despite what you may see on Fox TV or in the media in general, the debate about the reality of climate change is over. The scientific community is overwhelmingly in agreement that climate change is real. It is caused significantly by human activity. That right now we are seeing devastating results of climate change in terms of floods, in terms of heat waves, in terms of forest fires, in terms of extreme weather disturbances. And what the scientists tell us is that situation will only get worse unless we boldly address the problem, significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions and move toward sustainable energy.
And I say this – I don’t mean to be overly partisan today. I am partisan, obviously. And my Republican colleagues disappoint me, to say the least, every day.
But while we can have disagreements on so many issues, it is very frightening to me – and I think to you – that you have virtually the entire Republican Party rejecting science in terms of climate change.
They don’t reject science in terms of cancer research. They don’t reject science in many, many areas. But because of the power of the fossil fuel – the oil companies, the coal companies, the gas companies – because of that power, they are willing to push aside what is the overwhelming scientific evidence.
And the truth of the matter is that if we are aggressive in reversing climate change – if the United States of America become the leader – we can have a huge impact in moving China, moving India, moving other countries.
And by the way, when we move to issues like energy efficiency and weatherization – in Vermont right now, we are weatherizing thousands of homes. I’m sure you’re doing it here in New Hampshire. And by the way, your Senator Jeanne Shaheen has been very active on this issue. And when you do these things, you cut people’s fuel bills very, very significantly. You cut greenhouse gas emissions. What else do you do? You create jobs. That’s what you do. So we should do that. [Applause]
Ah, be patient. I’m coming to the end. [Laughter]

Now, and I mean in truth, I don’t know how to juggle. You know, people say, “Why did you put this thing first and that thing second?” They’re all enormously important. They’re all about the future of America.
But I want to now get to another issue, which may be in a way supersedes everything else, and that is what for many people is not a particularly sexy issue but it is right in the heart of everything and that is campaign finance. [Applause]
Now, a few years ago, the United States Supreme Court made a decision that had people to say the least scratching their heads. And they said in the Citizens United case – and by the way, my understanding is that Citizens United is one of the hosts of the Republican event over there – that they said that corporations are people and equally important that individuals could now spend as much money as they wanted in the political process because they have the First Amendment right of freedom of speech to do that.
What is the impact of that case and what’s the impact of the recent McCutcheon that we heard a couple of weeks ago?
And here is the impact that I want you to think very, very seriously about.
Everybody in Vermont and New Hampshire, we all have different opinions about this, that and the other thing. That’s called democracy.
But I would hope in respect especially to those who fought and died to defend democracy and our way of life that there is not a difference of opinion that in the United States of America billionaires should not be able to buy elections. [Applause]
Now, let me give you a very concrete example of what I’m talking about. It’s happening, literally today, in the other side of town right here in New Hampshire.
A few weeks ago, we saw a remarkable spectacle in Las Vegas, Nevada. They have a lot of spectacles in Las Vegas but this one was really quite remarkable. And that is Sheldon Adelson, worth many, many billions of dollars, called – beckoned Republican candidates for President to come to Las Vegas to tell him what they would do for him and how they would support his agenda.
Now, I understand I’m stepping on sensitive toes here. You think that New Hampshire has the first presidential primary in the country, right? The Adelson primary is now the first primary in America, and the difference between the New Hampshire primary and the Adelson primary tells you everything you need to know about what’s happening in politics today.
In New Hampshire, candidates come and they’re Democrats and they’re Republicans and they hold town meetings and they talk to people, and people end up voting. Get one vote, and people vote for the Democratic, Republican, whatever they like. That’s called democracy.
What the Adelson primary is about – and if we don’t change it, this is the future of American politics – is a billionaire saying, “Tell me what I want to hear, and if I like what you’re telling me, I am prepared” – and remember, Adelson earned $11 billion more last year – “I’m prepared to put hundreds of millions of dollars or maybe $1 billion into your campaign. It doesn’t matter to me. I have so much money, it really doesn’t matter.”
Obama, in the last presidential elections, spent a little over $1 billion. Mitt Romney spent a hair less. Both spent over $1 billion. These guys could take $1 billion out of their pocket today, they would not notice it was gone.
So what you are looking at now is a situation where billionaires are going to control the political process, and if we do not get our act together, we are moving rapidly down the road to an oligarchic form of society where billionaires control not only the economic life of a nation but the political life as well.
And my friends, of any issue that I hope we bring people from all political persuasions – I don’t care if you’re a conservative or progressive or whatever you may be – we have got to fight to defend American democracy and not allow billionaires to take it over. [Applause]
And by the way, while it is absolutely true that the Republican and right-wing billionaires are spending a lot more money, there are Democratic billionaires spending money as well, and we’ve got to oppose that as well.
And that is why I very strongly support – I’m not much into constitutional amendments. You know, there are some people out there with 50 different constitutional amendments everyday. I’m not into that. But I do believe and I have introduced a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. [Applause]
And in my view, we need to move toward public funding of elections. [Applause]
Honest people can and do and will have differences of opinion. That’s called democracy. I don’t claim to have all the answers to everything.
But I think what we want is campaigns that are based on ideas and not simply the ability of billionaires to flood the airwaves with ugly 30 second ads.
Now, when I talk about campaign finance, people say, “Yeah, it’s an important issue.” But let me tell you why it is so important and what is going today with regard to campaign finance.
On election back in 1980, David Koch – and I’m using this just as an important example. Most of you don’t know this. But David Koch back in 1980 – one of the Koch brothers – ran for Vice President of the United States on the Libertarian Party, and he ended up out of his own pocket financing much of the campaign. And that’s all fine.
But I want to take you down a road now because I want you to understand this. I want you to understand what was in the 1980 Libertarian platform that Koch ran on and which he got 1% of the vote on, which in 1980 the ideas that he espoused were considered extremist, whacky, kooky, way out of the mainstream.
Today, the political tragedy of the time is those extremist ideas are now mainstream in the Republican Party.
And I want to give you some examples. I’m going to give you quotes from the Libertarian platform of the 1980 party Koch ran on.
“We urge the repeal of federal campaign finance laws and the immediate abolition of the despotic Federal Election Commission.” Do you understand what that means? Do you understand that two weeks ago, Clarence Thomas in a decision said exactly that, and that that is where the Republican Party today in 2014 is moving. They want to end all restrictions on campaign finance. You know what that’ll mean is that a handful of billionaires will sit in a room and say, “We’ll put $20 million into New Hampshire. Let’s put $150 million into California. And $30 million into Vermont.” And for these guys, it is a drop in the bucket.
So if you allow unlimited spending in anyway directly to candidates independent, we will certainly lose the foundation of American democracy. That is what they were talking about 34 years ago, and in fact that is what is happening today.
Here’s another plank 1980 Libertarian Party, and I quote “We favor the abolition of Medicare and Medicaid programs.” Well, they haven’t succeeded but they’re trying. If you read the Ryan budget just passed by the Republican House last week, that budget would end Medicare as we know it and move it toward a voucher type program.
In other words, what it would say is “We’re going to give you when you’re 65 or 67” – and they probably want to raise the age for Medicare eligibility anyhow – “We’re going to give you a check, and here’s a check for $7,000 or $8,000 and you can go to any private insurance company that you want.” Well, if you have cancer, that’ll last you about – hmm – one day – maybe. But that is their plan on how they want to deal with Medicare.
In terms of Medicaid and other health care programs, the Ryan budget does not end Medicaid, but it would take health insurance away from 40 million Americans over a 10 year period by cutting Medicaid by more than $1.5 trillion, and it would also end the Affordable Care Act. Remember what the Koch brothers said back in 1980.
This is also what they said, and I quote “We favor the repeal of the fraudulent, virtually bankrupt, and increasingly oppressive Social Security system. Pending that repeal, participation in Social Security should be made voluntary.” Well, many of my Republican colleagues believe just that.
Furthermore in 1980, Koch brothers Libertarian Party platform stated “We oppose all personal and corporate income taxation, including capital gains tax. We support the eventual repeal of all taxation. As an interim measure, all criminal and civil sanctions against tax evasion should be terminated immediately.”
Well, today the Republican Party does not believe in the end of all taxation. They don’t. But the recently-passed Ryan budget, passed by the Republican House, provides a $5 trillion tax break for the wealthiest people in this country and large corporations. The Ryan budget would provide an average tax break of at least $200,000 a year for millionaires.
And lastly – and again, see what’s happening today; this was talked about in 1980. Libertarian Party staked out a very clear position on the minimum wage: “We support repeal of all laws which impede the ability of any person to find employment such as minimum wage laws.” Do you understand what they’re saying? Many people don’t. They’re saying “We are not only opposed increasing the minimum wage, we want to do away with the concept of minimum wage” because our freedom-loving friends at the other end of town today believe that you should have the freedom if you’re in a high unemployment area to work for $3 an hour.
You don’t want the government coming in, and they should have the freedom to throw all of their crap into the rivers and lakes and air, pollute our society, because you don’t want to restrict them from doing that and limit their freedom. And if you’re all hungry, you have the freedom not to be able to feed your families because we don’t believe in nutrition programs. And if you’re 65 or 70 and you are sick, you have the freedom to die because we don’t believe in federal Medicare or Medicaid. [Applause]
And that is the essence of what the Koch brothers and all of their organizations believe in: Freedom for billionaires to get richer. Freedom for companies to continue polluting our nation and moving us in a disastrous way with regard to climate change. Freedom of Wall Street to continue to go about their greedy illegal ways to disrupt our entire economy. That’s their definition of freedom.
So to my mind, here’s where we are right now. I’ve touched on a lot of issues, and all of them – without exception and there are many other issues I didn’t even say a word about that are terribly important as well.
But where we are in this moment of history is pretty clear to me, and that is whether or not – and it is not easy; I’m not here to tell you it happens by snapping your finger – whether or not we can bring about a political revolution in this country which demands and urges millions and millions of working people, middle-class people, young people, old people, people who are so disgusted with the political system today – They don’t want to vote; They don’t want to go near it; They turn off their TV sets when they see the ugly ads – can we somehow bring them into the political process.
And here is the very good news – on every single issue based on every poll and I look at these polls that I have seen – that these guys – the Koch brothers and our right-wing Republican friends – are talking about, they maybe represent 10% of the American people, 15% of the American people.
You go to conservative states – go to Mississippi, go to Alabama, go to Oklahoma – stand on a street corner and say, “Do you believe that we should cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, and give tax breaks to billionaires?”, and they will laugh at you. Nobody believes that. Very few people believe that.
And what our job is to understand is that there are issues – I’m 100% pro-choice all my life; I believe in gay marriage. Vermont has led the nation on that. But we have to understand there are differences of opinions. I respect other people’s differences of opinion. But our challenge is can we breathe together – working families all over this country – to stand for an America which makes sure that every single person has at least a modest standard of living, that our kids do well, that we end the international embarrassment of having the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world, that we do well by our seniors. Can do that? I think we can.
So what the challenge is about is whether we move in that direction, bringing tens of millions of people together, getting them involved in the political process, having meetings like this all over America, having debates, having discussions, and expanding and strengthening our democracy. That’s the way I think we’ve got to go.
And then there’s another way, which the guys at the other end of town are talking about, and that is a handful of billionaires pumping hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars into campaigns, having candidates come before them and getting the litmus test that they will support the billionaire agenda.
That’s where we are in America – either we strengthen democracy or an oligarchy, and I vote for democracy. Thank you very much. [Applause]

Question:
…Why are the Democrats so passive? Laying down already, almost conceding that we’re going to lose the Senate, it’s going to be taken over by Mitch McConnell and his right-wing hacks? Why are we letting this happen? You talked about 45,000 dying every year from not being able to afford medical care. That’s 3 jumbo jets equivalent crashing every week. If 3 jets or 150 crashed a year, people would stop flying. They’d pay attention to that. Most American people don’t know there are 45,000 dead. Most American people don’t know that a guy named Bill McGuire, who ran UnitedHealthcare in Chicago, when he walked out the door took $1.8 billion with him…People don’t know these things. They’d be pissed if they did.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Let me answer your question in two respects. Here’s what my view is that’s happening politically. I talked about the Republicans. In Vermont, you may know, we’ve had a long proud history of Republican Governors and Senators…We’ve had moderate Republicans in the Senate, in the House, and government. Those moderate Republicans today could not get into the door of today’s right-wing Republican Party. So you see, politically, the Republican Party have been moved from a kind of a center-right party to a right-wing party.
What about the Democrats? Well, if you look at the Democratic Party, look at what Harry Truman talked about in 1948. Truman, as you may recall, was considered then to be a conservative Democrat from Missouri. Conservative Democrat. Read what he has to say; there are very few Democrats who will talk in his language today. The Democratic Party has moved from a center-left party, focused on the American working class, to a centrist party which sadly – and it has to be admitted and anyone who doesn’t know it should know it – also receives a lot of corporate and big money as well.
So I agree with you. Believe we have caucuses. I’m an Independent. I caucus with the Democrats, and I rant and rave on this issue that the Democrats have got to stand with the working class of this country, and they’ve got to have the guts to take on big money.
But the other point that I would make – there are more good Democrats out there working really hard than you know. But they don’t get into the media terribly often. They’re not going to get on ABC, CBS, and NBC talking about the important issues, and that speaks to the first point that the questioner made about how do we open up the media to different points of view.
Question:
…I was so happy to hear your words on the centrality of campaign finance reform and about your amendment. But even before Citizens United was decided, we were in a mess with campaign finance, and can’t we go farther and reverse the Buckley v. Valeo decision and restore the right of the people to limit campaign funding? Also it’s not just corporations – to limit the right of wealthy individuals to control elections?
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
The answer is yes. I mean, that’s what –
Question:
But how?
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
That’s what public funding of elections is about. I mean, public funding of elections – people say, “Oh, my goodness, tax dollars are being used in election.” Well, I think that makes a lot more sense when we limit the amount than to have billionaires buy elections.
And what we’re talking about – and it’s hard stuff that we’ve got to figure it out. How do you create a situation where a serious candidate who has support – not everybody can jump up – can then run an election knowing that he or she has a certain amount of money – enough money to get the word out – without having to spend half his or her life raising money?
By the way, one of the other dangerous things that this Citizens United decision does – the other side of it is that the good guys have to keep up. And I will tell you – and again, it’s not great secret – in Washington, in the House, you have candidates, members of Congress not worrying about unemployment or education. They’re spending half their lives trying to raise money in order to compete. It’s a terrible, terrible situation.
Madam President, I thank Sen. Rubio for his remarks and I think many of us share the exact same concerns that he has raised.
When men and women put their lives on the line to defend our country, they are entitled to the best quality health care that we can provide to them.
In my view and I think in the view of virtually every veterans’ organization, the VA does provide good quality health care to those people who access the VA system.
But there are very serious problems in terms of access. There are serious problems regarding waiting lists. There are serious problems regarding the possibility of hospitals keeping two sets of books. And we’re going to get to the root of those issues.
But one thing we do not want to do, Madam President, is politicize the well-being of America’s heroes.
And let me quote to you, if I might, an editorial in the Washington Post today. This is what the editorial says: “The men and women who have served their country in uniform deserve better than delay or denial of the medical care they need and have earned. So it is crucial to get to the bottom of allegations of misconduct at the nation’s veterans hospitals. America’s veterans also deserve not to be treated as so many pawns in election year gamesmanship. But that sadly is proving to be the case in Congress’s increasingly hyperbolic response.”
Then it goes on: “That the extent of wrongdoing is unclear doesn’t seem to matter much to those more interested in scoring political points. How else to explain the knee jerk calls namely by Republicans in the House and Senate for the ouster of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki or the ill-advised and punitive legislation aimed at VA workers.”
Now, let me just make this point. I happen to think that the bill that was passed in the House yesterday has many important provisions, which I happen to agree with.
But as the Senator from Florida knows, we have not held a hearing on this legislation and some of us are old-fashioned enough to know that maybe folks in the Senate might want to know what is in the bill before we voted on it.
Senator from Florida is right – it passed with very strong support in the House, and in my view a similar bill containing some of the salient provisions in the House will pass in the Senate. But it is important that that bill be discussed.
And I would tell you, Madam President, that one of the concerns that I have is I do not want to see the VA politicized.
It is one thing to say, which I agree with, that if a hospital administrator is incompetent, the Secretary should be able to get rid of that administrator without a whole lot of paperwork. I agree with that.
It is another thing to say that if a new administration comes in, whether it’s a Democratic or Republican, that somebody in the Secretary’s office could say “I want to get rid of 20, 30 or 50 hospital administrators because we have other people that we want in there, and we could just get rid of them and they don’t have a right to defend themselves.” I worry about that.
So clearly, we have to discuss the issue. I would suggest that the Senator from Florida understands that it’s probably a good idea to discuss an issue before we vote on it.
So the bottom line for me on this – yes, every top administrator at the VA has got to be held accountable. I do not want to see an enormous amount of paperwork and obstruction go forward before we can get rid of incompetent people. But before we vote on legislation, it might be a good idea to understand the full implication of that legislation and there are some aspects of it that I think some of us have concerns with.
And let me just make a few more points on that issue. I would hope that the Senator from Florida would agree with me that we want to make certain that VA is able to recruit and retain high quality leaders and managers especially when the VA is in competition with other federal agencies for those leaders.
So that end, it is vital to ensure that we are fostering an environment at VA where individuals feel as if they are protected from the political whims of their leaders. That’s the point that I made earlier.
There are other areas that concern me in terms of setting precedents that may not be a good idea.
But bottom line is I think there are important provisions in the bill that passed the House…
But let me just make another point, if I might, and that is I am really very happy to see as much concern being paid to veterans’ needs in the last few weeks – I’m very happy to see that as Chairman of the [veterans affairs] committee. And I would say to Sen. Rubio and others as he is well aware that the veterans community faces many, many serious problems above and beyond what we are hearing in the last few weeks with regard to the VA.
We have 200,000 men and women who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan either with PTSD or TBI [traumatic brain injury]. I would assume that my friend from Florida agrees with me that they need to get the quality care that they deserve.
I was just – had the privilege, Sen. Rubio, of being honored an hour or so ago by the Gold Star Wives, you know, that those are the widows of men who died in action. We have in legislation that I brought to the floor, which received 56 votes and one Senator was absent which would have netted us 57 votes, but only two Republicans supported that bill and that bill would make it possible for Gold Star Wives – wives who have lost their husbands – to be able to get a college education under the 9/11 GI bill. And I suspect Sen. Rubio and many others support that. That’s in the bills that I’ve brought to the floor.
We have right now I’m sure as Sen. Rubio knows because the problems exist in Vermont but I’m sure in Florida – we have 70-year-old women in most cases who are taking care of disabled vets. They don’t get the support that they need. They’re on duty 24-7. They save the government money because those wounded veterans are staying at home. They need some help. And I want to see them get help, and I would hope Sen. Rubio would work with me to make sure they get that help.
Sen. Rubio is aware as you all, Madam President, that there’s great concern not only in the military medicine – VA DOD – but in the civilian sector about too much use of opiates to treat problems. We have a real serious problem in that. We have language in our overall provision that extends help to the VA to move forward to give our veterans alternative treatments other than opiates, and we think that’s a very important piece of legislation.
We have legislation that has passed, which provides 5 years of free health care in the VA for those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. We think it’s important to extend that to 10 years.
Many veterans out there do not have access to decent quality dental care. It’s a problem in Vermont. I’d suspect it’s a problem in Florida. We want those veterans to get that care as well.
There’s bipartisan support, Madam President, for advanced appropriation for VA. We have that in our legislation.
While the VA is making good progress in cutting back the backlog in moving from paper to a digital system, I want to see them do better. We have language in there that would push them to do better.
Just this morning, Sen. Rubio, Sen. Burr and I were at a hearing which dealt with the educational problems facing veterans who come back from the battlefield. They go to college and there are problems there. And what most of us think is that we should – veterans should be able to take advantage of in-state tuition in the state in which they are living.
Sexual assault has been a very serious problem in the military. We want the VA to do better than that. Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So, Madam President, I am very glad that my Republican friends virtually all of them – and I want to thank Sen. Heller and Sen. Moran for voting for this bill along with every Democrat. But I’m very glad that my Republican colleagues are now beginning to focus on veterans issues.
And we need to step up to the plate to help not only our veterans but their families. And that’s the legislation that I have offered. So when I say Sen. Rubio “Your legislation has many important provisions, which I happen to agree with. There are some that I think need work on.” And we are going to hold a hearing on that legislation and other legislations in early June.
So I respectfully object to that legislation right now. But I would ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to Calendar Number 297 S.1950 with the Sanders’s amendment, which is at the desk and is the text of S.1982 the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act. That is the comprehensive legislation supported by virtually every veterans organization in the country, millions of veterans and the American people that says “Thank you to the veterans who put their lives on the line to defend this country. We’re going to be there for you.”
So I would ask that this legislation be passed and would ask unanimous consent that that happen.
Madam President, as Chair of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, I rise today to introduce the Ensuring Veterans Access to Care of 2014. And I want to thank the 16 co-sponsors of this legislation, and they are Senators Rockefeller, Begich, Shaheen, Kaine, Reed, Merkley, Casey, Whitehouse, Blumenthal, Heinrich, Udall (New Mexico), Schatz, Baldwin, Wyden, Hirono, and Leahy.
Madam President, it is safe to say that there is broad bipartisan agreement among all of us that every veteran in this country who enters the VA health care system deserves high quality care and deserves that care in a timely manner.
Overall, talking to veterans in Vermont and in fact throughout this country, talking to the veterans service organizations who represent their interests, and reading independent studies, they’ve all confirmed that by and large once veterans get into the VA health care system, the system is in fact quite good.
However, it has become clear – I think all of us are aware of what has happened in the last month – it has become clear that while quality is generally good, there are too many veterans throughout this country waiting too long to access this care.
In recent years, VA has seen a huge increase in its patient load.
In fact in the last 4 years, 2 million new veterans have come into the system – many of them with very complicated health care cases, including TBI [traumatic brain injury], post-traumatic stress disorder, and many of the needs that older veterans, older people, generally have.
Despite this fact, it is still absolutely unacceptable that some veterans are forced onto long waiting lists for care. And it is totally intolerable, it is reprehensible, that any VA employee could be manipulating data in Phoenix or any place to hide how long veterans have been on waiting lists to see doctors.
This is an issue that must be dealt with and must be dealt with rapidly and strongly.
Madam President, these problems are real and they have to be addressed. But they should not be an excuse to walk away from a system that serves 6.5 million veterans every single year, and 230,000 veterans every single day. This is a system that we must fix, not a system that we should ditch.
We must focus on the underlying problems and work to transform the VA, and I think in general what our legislation does is work in three basic areas.
Number one, we give greater authority to the Secretary to fire incompetent senior officials.
Number two, we take very significant steps to shorten the wait times that many veterans are now experiencing.
And three, we address the long-term health care needs of the VA in terms of a shortage of staff – doctors, nurses – that currently exists in various locations around the country.
Now, let me just go through some of those issues right now.
Several weeks ago, my Republican colleague from Florida [Marco Rubio] requested a vote on legislation that would allow VA Secretaries to immediately remove senior executives due to poor performance.
So let us be clear: I strongly support the effort to make sure that we get rid of incompetent or worse senior executives at the VA. There is no debate about that.
But here’s what the debate is about. I do not think it is a good idea to give the Secretary of an institution, of an agency that has some 300,000 employees the ability to simply fire without any due process. What I worry about, Madam President, is that you can move toward a situation where the VA health care system is politicized in a way that it should not be.
Let me give you an example. A new President comes in with a new Secretary. The new Secretary says – whether it’s a Democratic President or a Republican President – “I want to get rid of 300 senior level appointees, bring in 300 new people”. Four years later, another President comes in, different party – “We’re going to get rid of those 300 people, bring in 300 more people.” I do not think that that provides the kind of stability that the largest integrated health care system in America needs or deserves. I worry about the politicalization.
Second of all, I worry about an instance where a whistleblower stands up, who’s critical of this or that aspect of the VA. That person could be fired without due process. I worry that there may be a situation where somebody is fired not because of bad performance or maybe they’re a woman – somebody doesn’t like a woman in that position. Maybe they’re gay. Maybe they’re black. Maybe they’re whatever. And that person does not have any ability to appeal that decision. I think that’s wrong. I think that’s bad policy.
On the other hand, what I do believe is that person should be taken out of his or her job immediately but that person must have the right to have an expedited appeal. And what our legislation does is give the person a week to bring forth the appeal and gives the appropriate appeal body three weeks to make a decision.
Now, you’re dealing with people who are MDs, Ph.Ds – high-level people – whose professionalism is on the line, and I just don’t think you can fire people willy-nilly without giving them a chance in an expedited manner to express their point of view.
So that is one difference that I have with my colleague from Florida on his proposal.
Now, let me talk a little about the major concern that I have and that is how do we shorten wait times. How do we make certain that in those areas of the country where there are long waiting periods or where veterans may be geographically a long distance away from a facility, how do we make sure that they timely care.
The legislation that I’ve offered takes immediate action to provide timely access for care for our veterans. First, this legislation would standardize VA’s process for providing non-VA care when the department is unable to provide care to the veterans within its stated goal.
As DAV – the Disabled American Veterans – pointed out in a release today, VA must continue to be responsible for coordinating their care amongst various VA and non-VA providers. This legislation accomplishes that goal by providing a framework for consistent decision-making regarding non-VA care. Under this legislation, VA would coordinate non-VA care by taking into accounts wait times for care, the health of the veteran, the distance the veteran would be required to travel as well as the veteran’s choice. This bill also addresses VA’s systemwide health care provider shortages.
But in terms of the wait list, what we say in English is if there is an unacceptable wait time or if a veteran is a long distance away from a provider, we are going to allow – and we must allow – that veteran to get health care through a private provider, through a federally-qualified community health center, through a Department of Defense military base if that’s available, with Indian Health Service if that’s available. That exists now in Alaska, and that might be expanded.
So bottom line here is if there are waiting lists beyond what is reasonable, the veterans of this country should be able to get into non-VA health care in a timely manner, and this bill does that.
But importantly, Madam President, this bill also addresses a very significant issue that I think we cannot ignore, and that is that it appears to be that in many parts of the country, we simply don’t have the doctors and nurses that we need when an influx of veterans are coming into the system.
I was just talking to some very knowledgeable people today who are telling me about burnout, primary care physicians, psychiatrists are just seeing more and more patients and turnover rates are much too high.
The last thing that we want to do is to see rapid turnover because people are burnt out and just don’t have the time to do the quality work they want to do.
Let me quote, if I can Madam President, an article that appeared in the New York Times on May 29th which addresses this issue. Here’s what it says – and I quote – “Dr. Phyllis Hollenbeck, a primary care physician, took a job at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Jackson, Mississippi in 2008 expecting fulfilling work and lighter patient load than she had had in private practice. What she found was quite different. 13 hour work days fueled by large patient loads that kept growing as colleagues quit and were not replaced. Appalled by what she saw, Dr. Hollenbeck filed a whistleblower complaint and changed jobs. A subsequent investigation by the Department of Veterans Affairs concluded last fall that indeed the Jackson Hospital did not have enough primary care doctors, resulting in nurse practitioners handling far too many complex cases and numerous complaints from veterans about the delayed care. ‘It was unethical to put us in that position’, Dr. Hollenbeck said of the over-stressed primary care unit in Jackson. ‘Your heart gets broken.'”
So here we had a physician that wanted to do the right thing, wanted to spend the appropriate amounts of time that she needed with her patients. She was unable to do that. And what we’re hearing is that in many parts of this country, primary care physicians are just saying “We can’t do it. Too many people are coming in.” So I think this is an issue that has to be addressed and our legislation does that.
Our legislation gives the VA the ability to rapidly hire new doctors, nurses, and other health are providers in areas with identified shortages. It also enables VA’s ability to recruit qualified health providers by enhancing scholarships and loan payment opportunities.
Madam President, as I know you well know as you’re on the committee that deals with this issue, we have a crisis in this country in terms of the lack of primary care practitioners. This is a very serious problem. There are experts that tell us in fact that we need 50,000 new primary care physicians in the next 10 to 15 years. And this is a national problem. It is a problem within the VA. And what this legislation proposes is that the VA work with the National Health Service Corps in order to provide debt forgiveness, scholarships to medical school students so when they graduate they could get into the VA and practice the quality medicine that we need there.
This bill also in addition to that addresses another issue that has been discussed a lot. I think there’s widespread bipartisan support for that and that support in the House as well and that is the authorization of some 27 major medical facilities leases. In many instances, these leases would improve access to care closer to home and it would increase the availability of specialty care services in those locations. In addition, these will allow the VA to decompress over-utilized VA facilities. This is an important issue. I believe there’s bipartisan support for it. That is in this legislation.
Furthermore, Madam President, this bill would require the President to create a commission to look at VA health care access issues and recommend actions to bolster capacity.
In the last couple of days, I have heard a lot of ideas out there about how we can deal with the issue but we need a high-level commission of some of the most knowledgeable people in this country appointed by the President to report within 90 days some ideas of how the VA can proceed.
So, Madam President, I want to thank the 16 or so co-sponsors that we have. I look forward to working with my Republican colleagues. We’ve got a problem. We have to address that problem and I hope that we can do it in a bipartisan way…
Every member of this Senate and every American understands the very deep debt of gratitude that we owe to the men and women who’ve put their lives on the line to defend this country.
That should not be a political issue. It should not be a partisan issue.
I think all of us have been appalled by what we read about in Phoenix and in other locations about people manipulating data, pretending that veterans were getting care in a timely manner when that wasn’t the case.
It is my strong belief as Chairman of the Veterans Committee that every veteran in this country is entitled to high quality medical care and that they should get that care in a timely manner.
I’m going to do everything I can to make that happen.
We live, as everybody knows, in a politically divided country and a divided Congress. Reaching agreements is not easy and quite frankly does not take place very often here in the Senate. Unfortunately for whatever reason without casting blame, it just doesn’t happen and the American people understand that and are not happy about that.
So, reaching a compromise among people who look at the world very differently is not easy. But in this process, Sen. John McCain of Arizona and I have tried our best to come forward with an agreement.
It’s an agreement, which I’m sure he is not 100% happy about, and I can assure you I am not 100% happy about. I would have written a very, very different bill.
And what I want to say now in thanking Sen. Harry Reid for his strong support for this process – Chuck Schumer, Patty Murray, Dick Durbin – pushing this effort forward, I hope that we will be back on the floor to continue the effort to deal with the many unmet needs of veterans.
But right now we have a crisis on our hands and it’s imperative that we deal with that crisis.
And to my mind, the essence of the crisis is is that we have learned that in many parts of this country, not all parts but many parts of this country, veterans cannot get the timely care that they need. They cannot walk into a VA and within a reasonable period of time get the treatment that they need.
And so this bill in a significant way begins to address that important issue, and let me very briefly tell you how it does that.
For it’s thought there are many locations around the country where we need new facilities. We need refurbished facilities. We need expanded facilities.
In fact, there are 26 locations in 18 states where that is the case. This legislation would allow the construction of 26 major medical facility leases in 18 states around the country, and I believe that will help us in many parts of the country in providing the quality timely care that our veterans deserve.
Mr. President, in my view, there are areas of the country where we simply do not have the doctors, the nurses, and the other staff that we need to provide the care that our veterans deserve.
Many primary care physicians get burned out by working 12, 14 hours a day. They quit. The turnover rate is too high.
It is my view that the VA by in large – and this is echoed by the views of the veterans communities themselves and independent studies – that when people get into the VA the quality of care is good.
But I will tell you if you don’t have the primary care physicians, the other physicians, the nurses that you need to treat veterans, they are not going to get the care that they need.
This legislation will target $500 million in un-obligated balances for the hiring of new VA doctors and nurses. I see that as a significant step forward.
Mr. President, one of the great I think embarrassments or shocks that all of us feel is that in the military we have seen in recent years horrendous accounts of sexual assault.
What this legislation does is say to those women and men who were sexually assaulted in the military that when you get into the VA there is going to be quality care for your needs.
This legislation also touches on a couple of issues that are not directly related to health care but have overwhelming support in the House and in the Senate.
We have heard from many young veterans who are in college as a result of the post-9/11 G.I. bill who right now can’t afford to go to college because they’re not getting in-state tuition. This legislation addresses that issue.
I have talked, as I know Sen. McCain has, to Gold Star Wives. These are women who have lost their husbands in combat who I think for not sensible reason are unable to take advantage of the post-9/11 G.I. bill. They want to get their lives together. They want to go to college or whatever. This bill addresses that issue.
Now, there’s another provision which was strongly supported by Sen. McCain and other Republican leaders…What this provision does is says that if you are 40 miles or further away from a VA health care facility – a medical center, a [community outpatient center], or whatever it may be – you will be able to go to the doctor of your choice under the strict supervision of the VA.
What this will do is prevent people in some cases in very rural areas – I think this is mostly a bill for people in very rural areas who now have to travel long distances to get their health care. This will make their lives easier. This is a two-year trial project. We will see how it turns out. But that is in the bill as well.
Last point that I want to make is I don’t think there’s any disagreement in the Senate and among the American people that when you have incompetent people in the VA – or worse, dishonest people in VA – they should be removed from their jobs immediately and that the Secretary of the VA should have to the power to get rid of them. I don’t think there’s any debate about that.
Where there has been some debate is my view is that those employees deserve due process, and I say that because I don’t want to see a situation where a new President comes in and for political reasons fires 400 top executives because they’re Democrats or they’re Republicans or whatever. I don’t want to see a situation where somebody is fired because she’s a woman or black or Hispanic or maybe gay, and maybe really that’s the underlying motive and that person has no course of appeal.
So what we have done is develop a very expedited process in terms of dismissal. If you are dismissed, you’re off the payroll tomorrow. You’re gone. But you’re going to have a week to file an appeal and the appropriate body will have three weeks to rule on your appeal, and I think that makes sense. When you think about it, it does make sense.
So Madam President, there are a few other important provisions. It is important in my view for the nation to take advantage of the expertise that’s out there in the private sector. How do we develop information technology for people accessing the VA? We want to do that. We have a commission that would help us do that. And we have another presidential commission that will help us with construction, which has been an ongoing problem in the VA.
…So Mr. President, that is a brief overview of what is in the legislation. Does it solve all of the problems facing our veterans? Absolutely not. Should we come back and continue to deal with this issue? Absolutely.
But I think given the crises that we have right now, this is an important step forward.
I want to thank Sen. McCain. Sen. McCain’s views on many issues are not my views. We look at the world differently but that is what democracy is about. And our job was to sit down and work out the best agreement we did, and I think from day one Sen. McCain showed absolute good faith in this, a desire to reach a compromise. I hope he feels that I did the same, and we are where we are today…
…This VA Conference Committee legislation that we are bringing forward today is far from what I would have written if I have to do it alone, and I suspect it’s fair to say, it is far from what Chairman Miller would have done if he wrote this bill by himself.
It is a compromise legislation. There’s been give and take on both sides. And let me be very clear that I strongly support what we have come up with.
This bill makes certain that we address the immediate crisis of veterans being forced onto long waiting lines for health care.
It strengthens the VA so it will be able to hire the doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel it needs so that we can put a permanent end to long waiting lists.
It addresses the very serious problems of accountability and makes certain that dishonest and incompetent senior officials at the VA do not remain employed there, and in addition it provides some other significant benefits for veterans and their families.
Funding for veterans’ needs must be considered a cost of war and appropriated as emergency spending. Planes and tanks and guns are a cost of war. So is taking care of the men and women who use those weapons and who fight our battles.
This was the funding mechanism contained in the Sanders-McCain bill, which passed the Senate with 93 votes, and it is the funding mechanism in this bill.
Sufficient sums of money must be provided so that the VA has the resources to immediately end unacceptably long waiting periods in many VA facilities throughout the country.
This bill does that by contracting out with private medical providers or community health centers, Department of Defense facilities, et cetera. This was something that was contained in the House bill, and we basically accept that language.
This agreement consistent with the Sanders-McCain bill allows veterans who live 40 miles or more from the VA facility to get their health care outside of VA. I think what we appreciate if you live 100 miles away and you’re sick, you should not have to make that long trip.
You should be able to go to a provider in your community.
This bill in terms of dollars provides some $10 billion for contracting out of health care and for those veterans who live 40 miles or more away. $10 billion.
Acting VA Secretary Sloan Gibson and many of the veterans organizations have made it clear that we need to make sure the VA has the doctors and nurses and medical personnel, the space they need. This bill provides $5 billion for the VA to strengthen their capabilities.
This legislation consistent with bills passed in the House, I think, unanimously and in the Senate as part of the Sanders-McCain authorizes funding for the VA to enter in 27 – into leases at 27 major facilities and 18 states and Puerto Rico. That will cost about $8.5 billion.
We have all been outraged by the distortion of data and so forth. This bill contains language which will allow the Secretary to fire people immediately who are underperforming or lying. It gives them a 21 day period of appeal without pay during that period.
This bill also contains some other provisions included in Sanders-McCain.
It improves the delivery of care to veterans who experience sexual trauma while serving in the military.
It expands the John Davis Price [sp] Scholarship Program to include surviving spouses of members of the armed forces who died in the line of duty and it also lets all veterans qualify for in-state tuition under the post-9/11 GI bill.
And it also extends a program regarding TBI [traumatic brain injury].
In terms of money, this bill will provide $17 billion into VA health care. There’s a $5 billion offset within the VA, approximately $12 billion of new money.
So this has been a very difficult process, and it takes place – Chairman Miller and I working – in the context philosophically the House and the Senate being very different institutions, looking at the world very differently. A lot of partisanship going on. It has been a very, very difficult process.
And I want to thank Chairman Miller very much. I think from Day One he understood that it is absolutely imperative that we get this bill done and we get it done now before the August break. It certainly would not have happened without his determination and his hard work, and I thank him very much for that.
…Mr. President, if you talk to the people in Vermont – and I suspect in any other state in America – they will tell you that the most serious crisis facing this country is the lack of jobs, particularly when it comes to young Americans. This is an issue we do not talk enough about, and this is an issue we have got to focus on.
Yes, we are better off today than we were six years ago when we were hemorrhaging 700,000 jobs a month and the nation’s financial system was on the verge of collapse.
But the truth of the matter is that the economy for working families and lower income families today remains in very, very difficult straits.
The middle class of this country, the backbone of this country, continues to disappear, and more and more people are living in poverty. In fact, we have almost more people living in poverty today than at any time in the history of this country and all the while we are seeing more wealth and income inequality such that 95% of all new income generated in America since the Wall Street crash is going to the top 1%.
Now the fact of the matter is that real unemployment in this country is not the official 6.1% we see in the front pages of newspapers.
The truth is that if you count those people who have given up looking for work because they live in high unemployment areas or those people – and there are many of these – who are working part time when they want to work full time, Mr. President, real unemployment is 12%. That is a crisis situation.
Now as bad as that is, the unemployment rate is far worse for young Americans.
Today, the youth unemployment rate is 20%. 20%.
We all paid a lot of attention to the tragedy in Ferguson, Missouri a few weeks ago, and yet what was not discussed was that African-American youth unemployment is 33%. In many areas of the country it is even higher than that.
Mr. President, today over 5.5 million young people have either dropped out of high school or graduated high school. And you know what they are doing? Nothing. They have no jobs. And many of them in Vermont and throughout this country are hanging out on street corners, and many of them are getting into trouble. Maybe they’re doing drugs; maybe they’re involved in crimes.
But this I will tell you – and the statistics are very clear on this – if you leave school either you drop out or you graduate high school, and you don’t get a job in your first year, you don’t get a job in your second year, you don’t get a job in your third year, there is a strong likelihood that you will never get a job, never get a career, never make it to the middle class, never be part of mainstream America.
Youth unemployment – 20% – is clearly one of the reasons why in the United States of America we have more people in jail today than any other country on earth. A lot of people don’t know that.
China’s a great big country, Communist authoritarian country. Doesn’t China put more people in jail than we do? No. We have more people in jail than China.
Mr. President, I think the time is long overdue for us to start investing in our young people, helping them get the jobs they need, helping them get the education they need, helping them get the job training they need so they can be part of our economy, part of the middle class and not end up in jail or dead from overdoses of drugs.
Mr. President, the situation is so dire that there are studies out there that tell us now that one out of every three African-American males born today – if we do not change this – one out of three will go to prison in his lifetime. One out of three…
…Today clearly is a major victory for consumers and entrepreneurs, but it is also a major victory for democracy.
When almost 4 million people demand that the FCC do the right thing, that says that this is an issue of deep concern to the American people.
And I’ll tell you something personally that blew me away.  A number of months ago on our website we reached out to people.  We said, “If you are entrusted in communicating to the FCC your feelings about net neutrality, write to us and we’ll send it to the FCC”.  We had close to 50,000 Americans from Vermont and all over this country writing long, detailed, thoughtful statements about why they believe there should not be discrimination in the Internet in support of net neutrality.
So I applaud Chairman Wheeler for listening to the American people.
What this is about, Senator Markey and Senator Booker have already said, this is about saying to a small business in rural Vermont that you are going to be able to utilize the Internet in the same way as Wal-Mart.  It says to a guy in rural America who’s working on a blog that you can use the Internet the same way that the New York Times can use that Internet, that we’re not going to have discrimination on what is clearly one of the important economic engines of the 21st century.
So I am proud of the work that the American people have done.  We have got a lot more work in front of us. Let’s continue to go forward together. Thank you.
Okay. Thank you all very, very much for being out here today.
Let me just make a brief comment. I’d be happy to take a few questions. But we don’t have an endless amount of time. I’ve got to get back.
Let me just say this:
This country today in my view has more serious crises at any time since the Great Depression in the 1930s.
For most Americans, their reality is that they’re working longer hours for lower wages.
In inflation-adjusted income, they’re earning less money than they use to years ago despite a huge increase in technology and productivity.
So all over this country I’ve been talking to people and they say “How does it happen? I’m producing more but I’m working longer hours for lower wages. My kid can’t afford to go to college. I’m having a hard time affording health care. How does that happen?”
While at exactly the same time 99% of all new income generated in this country is going to the top 1%.
How does it happen that the top 1% owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%?
And my conclusion is that that type of economics is not only immoral, it’s not only wrong, it is unsustainable. It can’t continue.
We can’t continue having a nation in which we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major nation on Earth at the same time we’re seeing a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires.
So that’s the major issue.
The major issue is how do we create an economy that works for all of our people and then these small numbers of billionaires.
And the second issue directly related is the fact that as a result of the disastrous Supreme Court decision on Citizens United, we now have a political situation where billionaires are literally able to buy elections and candidates. Let’s not kid ourselves. That is the reality right now.
So you’ve got the Koch brothers and other billionaire families now prepared to spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars in elections to buy the candidates of their choice – often extreme right-wing candidates.
I’m the former Chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and I can tell you I don’t believe that the men and women who defended American democracy fought to create a situation where billionaires own the political process. That’s a huge issue that we’ve got to deal with.
Right now, in terms of issues, we have a Republican Party with virtually few exceptions that does not even recognize the reality of climate change, let alone that it is caused by human activity, let alone that the scientific community tells us this is the major global environmental crisis that we face.
And I want to see this nation lead the world in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
Real unemployment in America is not 5.5%. If you include those people who have given up looking for work, people who are working part-time when they want to work full-time, real unemployment is 11%.
We need to create millions of jobs and the best way to do it is to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and I’ve introduced legislation to do just that – create and maintain 13 million jobs.
In my state of Vermont and throughout this country, young people – bright, young, able kids – cannot afford to go to college and others are leaving school deeply in debt.
In Germany, countries around the world, they understand that you tap the intellectual capabilities of young people, you make college tuition in public universities and public colleges free. That’s my view as well.
So there are enormous issues facing this country.
And let me conclude by saying this – and I say this to the media – I’ve never run a negative ad in my life. I’ve been in many campaigns.
If you ask the people of Vermont, they will tell you “Bernie Sanders has never run a negative ad.”
I hate and detest these 30-second ugly negative ads.
I believe that in a democracy, what elections are about are serious debates over serious issues, not political gossip, not making campaigns into soap operas. This is not the Red Sox versus the Yankees. This is the debate over major issues facing the American people.
Honest people – my conservative friends – differ with me. That’s fine. That’s called democracy. That’s a good thing.
But I would hope – and I ask the media’s help on this – allow us to discuss the important issues facing the American people and let’s not get hung up on political gossip or the other soap opera aspects of running campaigns.
Thank you.
Let me just take a few –

…Today, here in our small state – the state that has led this nation in so many ways – I am proud to announce my candidacy for President of the United States of America.
Today, with your support and the support of millions of people throughout our country, we begin a political revolution to transform our country economically, politically, socially, and environmentally.
Today, we stand here and say loudly and clearly “Enough is enough!” This great nation and its government belong to all of the people and not to a handful of billionaires.
Brothers and sister, now is not the time for thinking small. Now is not the time for the same old same old establishment politics and stale inside the Beltway ideas.
Now is the time for millions of working families to come together to revitalize American democracy, to end the collapse of our middle class, and to make certain that our children and grandchildren are able to enjoy a quality of life that brings them health, prosperity, security, and joy, and that once again makes the United States the leader in the world in the fight for economic and social justice, for environmental sanity, and for a world of peace.
My fellow Americans, this country faces more serious problems today than any time since the Great Depression, and if you include the planetary crisis of climate change, it may well be that the challenges we face now are more dire than at any time in the modern history of our country.
And here is my promise to you for this campaign. Not only will I fight to protect the working families of this country but we are going to build a movement of millions of Americans who are prepared to stand up and fight back.
We are going to take this campaign directly to the people in town meetings, door to door conversations, on street corners and in social media.
This week, we’re going to be in New Hampshire, we’re going to be in Iowa, and we’re going to be in Minnesota, and that is just the start of this national campaign.
Let me be clear. This campaign is not about Bernie Sanders. It’s not about Hillary Clinton. It’s not about Jeb Bush or anyone else. This campaign is about the needs of the American people and the ideas and proposals that effectively address those needs.

As someone who has never run a negative political ad in my life, my campaign will not be driven by political gossip or reckless personal attacks. This is what the American people want and deserve. These are serious times; we need serious debates.
Politics in a democratic society should not be treated as if it were a baseball game, a game show or a soap opera. And I hope the media understands that as well.
Let me take a minute to touch on some of the issues that I will be focusing on in the coming months and then give you a brief outline of an agenda for America – an agenda which in fact will deal with these serious problems and lead us to a better future.
Today, we live in a nation which is the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but that reality means very little for most of us because almost all of that wealth is owned and controlled by a tiny handful of individuals.
In America, we now have more income and wealth inequality than any other major country on Earth and the gap between the very rich and everyone else is growing wider and wider.
The issue of wealth and income inequality is the great moral issue of our time. It is the great economic issue of our time. It is the great political issue of our time and we will address it.
Let me be very clear and let the top 1% understand this: There is something profoundly wrong when the top one-tenth of 1% owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%, and 99% of all new income goes to the top 1%.
There is something profoundly wrong when in recent years we are seeing a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires at the same time as millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages and we have shamefully the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country.
There is something profoundly wrong when one family – one family – owns more wealth in this country than the bottom 130 million Americans.
This grotesque level of inequality is immoral. It is bad economics. It is unsustainable.
This type of rigged economy is not what America is supposed to be about.
This has got to change. And as your President, together, we are going to change it.
But it is not just income and wealth inequality. It is a tragic reality that for the last 40 years the great middle class of our country, once the envy of the entire world, has been disappearing.
Despite exploding technology and increased worker productivity, median family income is almost $5,000 less today than it was in 1999.
In our great state and all over this great country, people are working not one job but two jobs, three jobs, trying to cobble together an income and some health care. That is not acceptable. We can and must do better.

The truth is that real unemployment is not 5.4%, which you read in the papers. It is close to 11%. Youth unemployment 17%…[Inaudible]
Today, shamefully, we have 45 million people living in poverty, many of whom are working in low-wage jobs.
In America today, despite the gains of the Affordable Care Act, 35 million Americans still lack any health insurance.
My friends, that is the reality of the middle class in America today. And that is the reality not just for us but for our kids and our grandchildren that we are going to change.
My fellow Americans, let me be as blunt as I can and tell you what you already know.
As a result of the disastrous Supreme Court decision on Citizens United, the American political system has been totally corrupted and the foundations of American democracy are now being undermined.
What the Supreme Court said essentially was that it was not good enough for the billionaires to own much of the economy. They can now own the United States government as well and that is precisely what they are trying to do.
And what I learned in school and I think what the men and women who’ve put their lives on the line for our country have long known that American democracy is not about billionaires being able to buy candidates and buy elections.
It is not about the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson and other incredibly wealthy individuals spending billions of dollars to elect candidates who will make the rich richer and everyone else poorer.
According to media reports, if you can believe it, the Koch brothers in this election cycle are prepared to spend more money than either the Democratic or Republican parties. That is not democracy; that is oligarchy.
In Vermont in our town meetings, we know what democracy is about and that is one person, one vote. And that’s the kind of political system we are going to fight for and are going to achieve.
Now, when we talk about our responsibilities as human beings and as parents, there is nothing more important than leaving this country and the entire planet in a way that is habitable for our kids and our grandchildren.
The debate is over. The scientific community has spoken in a virtually unanimous voice. Climate change is real. It is caused by human activity, and it is already causing devastating problems in our country and around the world.
And let’s be clear: If we do not get our act together and have the United States lead the world in combatting climate change, there will be more drought, more famine, more rising sea level, more flood, more ocean acidification, more extreme weather disturbances.
As human beings who look out over this environment, who appreciate the beauty that we have on this planet, we are not going to allow the fossil fuel industry to destroy this planet.

Brothers and sisters, it is no secret that there is massive discontent with politics in America today.
In the last mid-term election, some 63% of American did not vote, including 80% of young people.
Poll after poll tells us that our citizens no longer have confidence in our political institutions and given the power of big money in the political process in general.
They understand that their pain is not being heard in Washington and that people in Washington and elected officials [inaudible]…concerns about the lobbyists and billionaires than the suffering of ordinary people.
Now, combatting this political alienation, these citizens and this legitimate anger will not be easy. That’s for sure. But that is exactly what together we must do if we’re going to turn this country around. And that is what this campaign is all about.
And if we are going to bring people together, we need a simple, straightforward progressive agenda which speaks to the needs of the American people and provides us with a vision of a very different America.
And what is that agenda? Let me briefly tell you what I think.
The agenda begins with jobs, jobs, and more jobs.
If we are serious about reversing the decline of the middle-class, we need a major federal jobs which puts millions of people back to work and good-paying jobs.
At a time when our roads, our bridges, our water systems, rails and airports are decaying, the most effective way to rapidly create meaningful jobs is to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
And that is why I introduced legislation which would invest $1 trillion over five years to modernize our country’s physical infrastructure – legislation that would create and maintain 13 million good paying jobs.
And as your President, I will lead the effort to make sure that legislation is passed.
I will also continue to oppose our current trade policies.
For decades, Presidents from both parties have supported trade agreements which have cost us millions of decent paying jobs as corporate America shuts down plants in Vermont, throughout this country and moves to low-wage countries.
As President, my trade policies will break that cycle of agreements, which enrich the few at the expense of the many.
Let us also be honest and acknowledge that today millions of American workers are now working for totally inadequate wages.
The current federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage and must be raised.
The minimum wage in this country must become a living wage, which means raising it to $15 an hour over the next few years.
Our goal – this is not a radical idea – but our goal must be that any worker in this country who works 40 hours a week is not living in poverty.
Further, we must establish pay equity for women workers.
It is unconscionable that women earn 78 cents on the dollar compared to men who perform the same work.

We must also revise our overtime standards so that people making $25,000 or $30,000 a year who are working 50, 60 hours a week get time and a half.
And we need paid sick leave and guaranteed vacation time for every worker in this country.
This campaign starting today is going to send a message to the billionaire class and that is “You can’t have it all. You can’t get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry. You can’t continue sending our jobs abroad while millions are looking for work. You can’t hide your profits in the Cayman Islands or other tax havens while there are massive unmet needs on every corner of this nation.”
To the billionaire class, I say that your greed has got to end. You cannot take advantage of all of the benefits of America if you refuse to accept your responsibilities.
And that is why we need a tax system which is fair and progressive, which tells the wealthiest individuals and largest corporations that they are going to begin to start paying their fair share of taxes.
When we talk about power, we talk about Wall Street. In my view, it is time to break up the largest financial institutions in this country.
Wall Street cannot continue to be an island unto itself, gambling trillions in risky financial instruments while expecting the public to bail it out.
If a bank is too big to fail, that bank is too big to exist.

If we are serious about a progressive agenda that speaks to the needs of working families, that talks about climate change and the needs of our kids and the elderly, we must be focused on campaign finance reform and a need for a constitutional amendment to overturn this disastrous Citizens United decision.
I have said it before and I’ll say it again. I will not nominate any justice to the Supreme Court who has not made it clear that he or she will move to overturn that disastrous decision, which is undermining American democracy.
…We need to go further and establish public funding of elections.
As I look to our future, it is clear to me that the United States of America must lead the world in reversing climate change.
We can do that by transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels to an energy efficiency and such sustainable energies as wind, solar, geothermal and biomass.
Brothers and sisters, the United States of America today remains the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right.
Despite the modest gains of the Affordable Care Act, 35 million Americans continue to have no health insurance and even more are under-insured.
Yet, despite that pathetic record, we end up spending almost twice as much per capita on health care as any other nation.
In my strong opinion, the United States must join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all as a right.
And we must do it through a Medicare for all single payer program.

At a time when millions of Americans are struggling to keep their heads above water economically, at a time when senior poverty is increasing, at a time when millions of kids in this country don’t get enough food to eat, my Republican colleagues as part of their recently passed budget are trying to make a terrible situation even worse.
If you can believe it and this is the truth – the Republican budget throws 27 million Americans off of health insurance, makes drastic cuts in Medicare, throws millions of low-income Americans including pregnant women off of nutrition programs and makes it harder…for working class families to afford college or put their kids in the Head Start program.
And then to add insult to injury, the Republican budget provides huge tax breaks for the very richest people in this country while they raise taxes on working families.
Well, let me tell my Republican colleagues that I respectfully disagree with their approach.
Instead of cutting Social Security, we are going to expand Social Security benefits.
Instead of cutting Head Start and child care, we are going to move to a universal pre-K system for all the children of this country.
As Franklin Delano Roosevelt reminded us, a nation’s greatness is judge not by what it provides to the most well off but how it treats the people most in need and that is the kind of country we must become.
And when we talk about education, let me make it very clear. In a highly global economy, we need the best educated workforce we can create.
It is insane, it is counter-productive to the best interest of our country that hundreds of thousands of bright young people cannot afford to go to college and that millions of others leave school with a mountain of debt that burdens them for decades.
This is not what a great country is about. That must end.
And that is why I as President will fight to make tuition in public colleges and universities free as well as substantially lower interest rates on student loans.
The young people of our country are the future. They’ve got to get the education they need.
As everybody knows, we live in a difficult and dangerous world, and there are people out there who would do us harm.
As President, I will defend this nation but I will do it responsibly.
As a member of Congress, I voted against the war in Iraq and that was the right vote.
I am vigorously opposed to an endless perpetual war in the Middle East.

Yes, we must be vigorous in combatting terrorism and the defeating ISIS. But we as a nation should not have to bear that burden alone. We must be part of an international coalition led by the Muslim nations that can not only defeat ISIS but begin the process of creating the conditions for peace.
As some of you know, I was born in a far away land called Brooklyn, New York.
My father came to this country from Poland without a penny in his pocket and having dropped out school at a young age. My mother graduated high school in New York City.
My father worked his entire life as a paint salesman, never made much money.
My parents, my brother and I lived in a small rent-controlled apartment. My mother’s dream was to move out of that small three-and-a-half room apartment and get a home of her own. She died young and her dream was never fulfilled.
As a kid, I learned in many, many ways every day in my house what lack of money means to a family and that is a lesson that I have never forgotten and never will forget.
I have seen, as many of you have, the promise of America in our own life.
My parents never, never, never would ever dream that their son could become a United States Senator, let alone run for President.
But for too many of our fellow Americans, the dream of progress and opportunity is being denied by the grind of an economy that funnel virtually all of the wealth and all of the income through the top.
And to those who say we cannot restore the dream, I say just look where we are standing today.
As some of you will remember, this beautiful place was once an unsightly rail yard that served no public purpose and was an eyesore.
As mayor, I worked with the people of Burlington to help turn this waterfront into the beautiful people oriented public space it is today.
We took that fight to the courts, to the legislature, and to the people and we won.
The lesson to be learned – and it is a profound political lesson – is that when people stand together, when people are prepared to fight back, there is nothing that cannot be accomplished.
We can live in a country where every person has health care as a right not a privilege.
We can live in a country where every parent can have quality and affordable child care and where all of our qualified young people can get a college education regardless of their income.
We can live in a country where every senior can live in dignity and security and not be forced to choose between food and medicine.
We can live in a country where every veteran who has put his or her life on the line to defend this nation gets the quality health care and benefits they have earned and deserve.
We can live in a country where every person no matter their race, their religion, their disability or their sexual orientation realizes the full promise of equality that is our birthright as Americans.
Brothers and sisters, that is the nation we can build together…
…Next week, we will be celebrating the Fourth of July – the day when the founders of this country declared independence from what they viewed as a tyrannical aristocracy in England.
Yet today, in many respects, the tyrannical aristocracy is no longer a foreign power but a billionaire class, which now has unprecedented economic and political power over the American people.
In fact, if we do not make the necessary changes to reduce skyrocketing wealth and income inequality, this country in my view is well on its way to becoming an oligarchic form of society, a nation in which a handful of extremely wealthy people control not only our economy but our political life as well.
Let’s be clear: The United States is the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but the vast majority of our people don’t sense that, don’t feel that because almost all of the wealth is concentrated in the hands of the few.
In the year 2015, the U.S. has by far the most unequal distribution of wealth and income of any major developed country on Earth, and this inequality is worse today than at any time since 1928. We are moving in exactly the wrong direction.
The fact of the matter is that over the past 40 years, we have witnessed an enormous transfer of wealth from the middle class and working families of our country to multi-millionaires and billionaires.
Now, my Republican colleagues often express their fear about wealth distribution. In fact, that is exactly what has been happening over the last 30 years. There has been a massive transfer of wealth but it has gone from the middle class and working families to the people at the top.
According to the most recent statistics, and this chart makes it pretty clear, the share of the nation’s wealth going to the bottom 90% of Americans has gone down from 36% in 1985 to just 22.8% in 2013.
Meanwhile, over the same time period, the top 0.1% saw its share of the nation’s wealth more than double going from 10% in 1985 to 22% today.
In other words, the top 0.1% own nearly as much wealth as the bottom 90% of Americans.
That is an extraordinary and tragic reality.
In the last two years – I want you to picture this – in the last two years, the wealthiest 15 people in this country – 15 people – about what’s sitting in this room right now – saw an increase in their wealth by $170 billion. Increase in wealth in two years – $170 billion.
That is more wealth than is owned collectively by the bottom 130 million Americans.
Today, the wealthiest family in this country, the Walton family, is now worth more than the bottom 42% of the American people.
In terms of income, not wealth, income, the top 1% earns more than the bottom 50%.
Since the Great Recession of 2008, 99% of all new income is now going to the top 1%.
At a time when the rich are getting richer and when almost all new income and wealth is going to the people on top, how have my Republican colleagues responded to this grotesque level of income and wealth inequality?
Well, what they have done unbelievably is to pass legislation which provides a $269 billion tax break to the wealthiest 5,400 Americans in this country – the top 0.2%.
So in the midst of massive wealth inequality, what the Republicans have said is “Oh, let us give the very, very, very wealthiest people a gigantic tax break”.
And they do this by completely repealing the estate tax.
Now, in my view, this is wrong morally. We should not exacerbate income and wealth inequality when it is so bad today.
It is wrong economically. We do not need to be putting more money into the hands of the very richest people in this country while the middle class continues to decline.
But this is not what Bernie Sanders believes or what Jan Schakowsky believes.
More than a century ago, President Teddy Roosevelt, a good Republican, fought for the creation of a progressive estate tax in order to reduce the enormous concentration of wealth that existed during the Gilded Age.
And this is what President Teddy Roosevelt said about 100 years ago: “The absence of effective state and especially national restraint upon unfair money-getting has tended to create a small class of enormously wealthy and economically powerful men whose chief object is to hold and increase their power. The prime need is to change the conditions which enable these men to accumulate power. Therefore, I believe in a graduated inheritance tax on big fortunes properly safeguarded against evasion and increasing rapidly in amount with the size of the estate.”
Teddy Roosevelt. I don’t hear too many Republicans speaking that language today.
While Roosevelt spoke those words in 1910, they are even more relevant today.
Income and wealth inequality in my view is the great moral issue of our time. It is the great economic issue of our time. And as a result of Citizens United, it is the great political issue of our time.
No great nation can flourish when so few have so much and so many have so little.
Now, one of the straightforward ways to address wealth inequality, invest in the disappearing middle class, and preserve our democracy is to enact a progressive estate tax on multi-millionaires and billionaires.
As you know for almost 100 years, this country has had an estate tax on the books that only taxes the inheritances of the very wealthiest people in this country.
Today, that tax only applies to the wealthiest 0.2% and my Republican colleagues, who are so anxious to protect the interests of the wealthy and the powerful, they want to eliminate that.
But I think we should move in a very different direction. And that is why along with Congresswoman Schakowsky, I’m introducing the Responsible Estate Tax Act.
This legislation which only applies to the top 0.3% – 99.7% of people will not pay a nickel more in taxes – includes a progressive estate tax structure so that the super wealthy pay more.
And this includes a progressive estate tax rate structure so that the super wealthy pay more. It establishes a 10% surtax on billionaires. It closes estate tax loopholes that have allowed the wealthy billions in estate taxes. It exempts the first $3.5 million of an estate from federal taxation; $7 million for couples…
The ruling of the Supreme Court today is a common sense decision that affirms what most of us already knew, and that is that when we passed the Affordable Care Act in 2010, we intended to expand…access to affordable comprehensive health insurance.
As Chief Justice Roberts notes in his opinion and I quote, “Congress passed the ACA to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them.”
You know, we are the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee health care to all of our people as a right.
Today, 35 million Americans have no health insurance. More are under-insured. The idea that we would simply throw another 6.4 million people off of health insurance and totally disrupt the Affordable Care Act makes no sense to me and I’m glad that the Supreme Court ruled in the way that it did.

Let me be very brief.
First off, I applaud the President, Secretary Kerry for their efforts in a very crazy and dangerous world to create an agreement with Iran which prevents Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.
This is a huge breakthrough.
Obviously, the devil is in the details. All of us are going to study those details but this is clearly a major step forward.
Let me also welcome Secretary Clinton back to the United States Senate where she served for eight years.
I very much look forward in this campaign to a serious debate about the very serious crises facing our country.
I don’t like negative campaigns. I’ve never run a negative ad in my life. I believe the American people are entitled to serious discussion about serious issues.
Secretary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues. There are issues where we come from the same place.
Some of the areas where we disagree are on trade.
I happen to believe that the trade agreements that have been passed here over the last three decades – NAFTA, CAPTA, the Chinese trade agreement, TPP – have been disastrous for American workers and have led to the loss of millions of jobs.
Secretary Clinton, I believe, has a different view on that issue.
I strongly oppose the war in Iraq, and if you go to the remarks that I made when I was a member of the House, sadly, tragically much of what I predicted in fact took place.
I voted against the so-called USA PATRIOT Act because I feared very much that while we have to be vigorous in protecting this country against terrorism, we could do it without undermining the constitutional rights or the privacy rights of the American people.
I happen to agree very strongly with Pope Francis that climate change is the great planetary crisis – environmental crisis – that we face.
I have helped lead the opposition against the Keystone Pipeline. I don’t believe we should be excavating or transporting some of the dirtiest fuel on this planet.
I think Secretary Clinton has not been clear on her views on that issue.
When I was a member of the House, I led, helped lead the effort in opposition to the de-regulation of Wall Street. I happen to believe that Wall Street has far too much power, much too much concentration of ownership and wealth there. I believe that we should break up the major financial institutions and certain go forward with restoring Glass-Steagall financial regulations.
To the best of my knowledge, those are ideas that Secretary Clinton does not agree with.
I have been very specific in saying that when we have millions of people in this country who are working for disastrously low wages, that the $7.25 an hour minimum wage here is a starvation wage. We need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
We need to invest $1 trillion in rebuilding our infrastructure, creating up to 13 million jobs.
Those are very specific ideas that I have. I think the Secretary has not been quite so clear on those issues.
Lastly, I believe that if we’re going to rebuild the American middle class we need to make public colleges and universities tuitions free and pay for it through a transaction tax on Wall Street speculators. The Secretary’s position I think is unclear on that.
And I would specifically talk about climate change. I do not believe that my Republican friends do not understand the science. I think they are afraid to come out and take the Koch brothers, take on Exxon Mobil and say “You know what? Maybe climate change is real. Maybe it’s a real threat to this planet. Maybe we have to do something.” And if they say that, the next day they would be challenged in primaries with huge amounts of money coming from the big energy companies and from the Koch brothers.
It is not necessary I think for people to dislike each other or to attack each other just because they’re running for office.
…I’m also delighted to be here following other remarks from great Democrats who have dedicated their entire lives to public service. This is a great team and I thank them all.
Let me begin by suggesting to you something that I think very candidates ever say and that is given the reality of economics and politics in America today, no President – not the best – can bring about the changes we need in this country unless there is a political revolution.
And what that means in all honesty is the powers that be in Washington – the billionaire class, the Koch brothers, the lobbyists, the corporate interests – are so powerful that nothing will get done unless millions of people stand up and loudly proclaim “Enough is enough. This country belongs to all of us and not a handful of billionaires.”
My point is that no President does it alone. We need a mass movement from coast to coast so that Republicans understand that when they get tax breaks to their billionaire friends, when they try to cut Social Security or Medicare, we know what’s going on and that vote will be their last term in Congress.
And here’s something else that all of us should know: Today in our great country, we are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. Today, in the history of the world. But most Americans don’t know that because almost all of the wealth rests in the hands of the few.
America now has more wealth and income inequality than any major country on Earth and it is worse today than at any time since 1928.
The issue of income and wealth inequality is the great moral issue of our time. It is the great economic issue of our time. It is the great political issue of our time.
And together that is an issue that we will address.
Let me be as clear as I can be: There is something profoundly wrong when the top one-tenth of 1% own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
There is something profoundly wrong when one family – the owners of Walmart – own as much as wealth as the bottom 40% of the American people.
There is something profoundly wrong when millions of workers are working longer hours for lower wages, when we have by far the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world, and almost all new wealth and income goes into the hands of the few.
Enough is enough. That has got to end and together we will end it.
This campaign is sending a profound message to the billionaire class: You can’t have it all. You can’t get huge tax breaks when children in America go hungry. You cannot continue to send our jobs to China when millions of Americans are looking for work. You cannot hide your profits in the Cayman Islands and in other tax havens when there are massive unmet needs in this country.
The greed of the billionaire class has got to end and we are going to end it for them.
But it is not just income and wealth inequality. It is the fact that we have millions of people working longer hours for lower wages, and that is why we have got to raise the minimum wage to a living wage. Nobody in America works 40 hours a week should be living in poverty.
And that is why I have lead the effort in the United States Senate not only against NAFTA, CAFTA, and permanent normal trade relations with China, but I’m leading it against this disastrous TPP trade agreement.
When 33% of white kids between 17 and 20 who graduated high school are unemployed, when 36% of Hispanic kids are unemployed who graduated high school, when 51% of African-American kids who graduated high school are unemployed, we need a massive jobs program to put our people back to work.
And when our infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our water system, our rail system – is crumbling, there is more than enough work to do. Let’s rebuild our infrastructure, create millions of decent-paying jobs.
Today the United States of America embarrassingly remains the only major nation on Earth that does not guarantee health care as a right for all people.
I voted for the Affordable Care Act and it has done a lot of good. But there are still 35 million Americans with no health insurance and many more who are under-insured.
Now is the time for us to say loudly and proudly America will join the rest of the industrialized world with a Medicare for all single-payer program.
And when my Republican colleagues as they have done for years tell us that we have got to cut Social Security despite the fact that millions of seniors are trying to survive on $12,000, $13,000 a year, what we say is “No, you’re not going to cut Social Security. We are going to expand Social Security by lifting the cap on taxable income.”
My Republican colleagues in the Senate talk about family values. You all know what they’re talking about. Their family values say that a woman does not have the right to control her body. I disagree.
They say that a woman should not be able to get the contraceptives she needs. I disagree.
They say that our brothers and sisters who are gay should not be able to enjoy the same marriage rights that heterosexual couples enjoy. We disagree.
But we also have family values not based on hatred but based on love and compassion.
Our family values say that when a woman has a baby, she should get 12 weeks of family and medical leave to stay home with her baby.
Now there’s another issue out there that must be addressed because perhaps it is the most important issue of all and that is to understand that the Supreme Court’s decision on Citizens United is moving this country toward an oligarchic form of society because it is allowing billionaires to buy elections with super PACs and unlimited sums of money.
It should not be acceptable to any American – conservative, moderate, progressive – that the Koch brothers alone – an extreme right-wing family – will spend more money in this campaign cycle than either the Democratic or the Republican Party.
When one family spends more money than either of the two major political parties, brothers and sisters, that is not democracy, that is the path of oligarchy. That’s why Citizens United must be overturned.
I have not made many promises in this presidential campaign, but here’s one I have made: No nominee of mine to the Supreme Court will be made unless that many or woman is clear that he or she will vote to overturn Citizens United.
And furthermore – we’ve got to go further – we have got to in my view move to public funding of elections so that anybody can run for office without being dependent on the wealthy and the powerful.
At my table here this evening, I have seven or eight wonderful young people. And the reason that I asked them to join me tonight is to highlight a tragedy in this country.
These young people collectively owe more than $1 million in student debt.
I have introduced legislation and will fight as President of the United States to make certain that every public college and university in America is tuition free.
We must also significantly reduce student debt. It is insane that people in this room are paying 8%, 9%, 10% interest rates on student debt when you can refinance your home for 2% or 3%.
And we’re going to do that.
…
And when we talk about our responsibility as adults, what that means is that we have the moral obligation to make certain that we leave this planet for our kids and our grandchildren in a way that is habitable.
It is an international embarrassment that my Republican colleagues refused by and large to even acknowledge the reality of climate change let alone are prepared to do anything about it.
In my view, this nation must and can lead the world in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energies like wind, solar, and geothermal.
And like everybody in this room, I want to see an America where when young black men walk down the street, they will not be harassed by police officers, they will not be killed, they will not be shot.
To his credit, President Obama did something extraordinary the other day. He had the courage to go to a federal jail and talk about the absurdity of a criminal justice system in which if we don’t change it, one out of four male African Americans born today will end up behind bars. That is not the America we believe in.
And that’s why we believe that it makes more sense to invest in jobs and education not jails and incarceration.
And to our 11 million brothers and sisters who are living in the shadows today, we say loudly and we say clearly, we are going to bring you out of the shadows and in a path toward citizenship.
And we’re not going to divide families up.
Brothers and sisters, we are wealthiest nation in the history of the world. There is nothing we cannot accomplish.
Please don’t think small. Think big. Think about a future where our kids get the best education in the world, where our young people have the job and education they need, where women’s rights are protected. That is the America we can become if we stand together and not let them divide us up by race, by gender, by sexual orientation.
Let us stand together. Let us remake America together.
Thank you very much.

Thank you! A lot of people here. Thank you!
You know, 3.5 months ago, we just began the campaign. And everybody said that this campaign was a joke. Who believes that the American people are prepared to take on the economic and political establishment of America?
And 3.5 months have gone by. We have had huge crowds all over America, in Iowa, New Hampshire, California, Oregon. You name it.
And when people asked me why, what I tell them is the American people are saying “Enough is enough!”
This country belongs to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.
And before I get going, I want to wish a happy birthday to some institution; it’s called Social Security – 80-years-old.
And let me be very clear, virtually all of the Republican candidates in one form or another want to cut Social Security. Together, we are not going to let them do that.
When we have seniors in this country trying to get back on $12,000, $13,000 a year, disabled people unable to put enough food on the table, no, we’re not going to cut Social Security; we’re going to expand Social Security. And we’re going to do that by lifting the cap on taxable income.
In America today, what we are seeing is the disappearance of the great middle class.
We are seeing millions of our brothers and sisters in Iowa, Vermont, all over this country working longer hours for lower wages. People are working two, three jobs in order to put food on the table.
Meanwhile, almost of all of the new income, all of the new wealth is going to the top 1%. That is going to change.
We need an economy that works for working people, not a handful of billionaires.
And let me tell you something about this campaign finance system that we have today. It is a corrupt system.
Citizens United will go down in history as one of the worst decisions ever made by a Supreme Court.

And let me repeat a promise that I have made to other crowds and that is no nominee of mine to the Supreme Court will get that position unless he or she pledges to make certain that Citizens United is overturned.
And when we try to understand why it is that so many of our family members, our friends, our neighbors are working two or three jobs in order to cobble together an income and some health care, the answer is that wages in our country for many people are much, much too low.
And that is why we have got to recognize that a $7.25 minimum wage is a starvation wage. We’ve got to raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour.
What we understand also is that when we live in a competitive global economy, we need the best educated workforce possible.
It makes no sense to me that we have hundreds of thousands of bright qualified young people who want to get a higher education are unable to do so because their family lacks the income. That’s wrong.
And that is why I have introduced legislation and will fight for as President of the United States to make sure that every public college and university in America is tuition-free.
And we have also got to deal with the disgrace of outrageously high student debt. There are millions of Americans – young and not so young – who are paying 7%, 8%, 10% on their student debt, 20%-25% of their limited income.
If you can refinance your home at 2% or 3% today, you should not be paying 8% or 10% on student debt.
And the government should also not be profiteering on student debt held by working class families.
And when we talk about raising the minimum wage to a living wage, we have also got to talk about pay equity for women workers.
Women cannot continue to earn 78 cents on the dollar compared to men workers.
Many of my Republican colleagues talk about family values.
Their values are that a woman should not have the right to control her own body; I disagree.
Their values are that our gay brothers and sisters should not be able to get married or enjoy all of the benefits of American citizenship; I disagree.
But my family values – and I’ve been married 27 years, got four kids, seven grandchildren – my family values are that the United States has to got to end the international embarassment of being the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee paid family and medical leave.
When a woman has a baby in this country, regardless of her income, she should be able to spend three months with that baby, getting to know that baby, love that baby. That’s a family value.

And when we talk about American values, when we talk about where we want to go as a country, I want to end the absurdity of the United States being the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right.
And that is why I strongly support a Medicare for all single payer program.
And when we talk about our responsibilities as adults, as parents, as citizens of this Earth, we have a moral responsibility to make certain that we leave this planet in way that is habitable for our kids and our grandchildren.
The debate is over. Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. Climate change is already causing devastating problems in our country and around the world.
What the United States must do and I will do as President is lead the world, working with other countries, to transform our energy system –
Well, there’s Donald Trump. What could we do? You know, I apologize. We left the helicopter at home. It’s in the garage. Forgot to bring it.
But our job is to make sure that we join the rest of the world – major countries around the world – in guaranteeing health care to every man, woman, and child as a right of citizenship.
It makes no sense to me that despite the gains of the Affordable Care Act, we continue to have 35 million people uninsured and many of you are under-insured. Right? High deductibles, high co-payments.
And yet, after all of that, we end up spending almost twice as much per capita on health care as do the people of any country. That’s wrong. That has got to change.
And let me close on one issue that I know a lot of people are thinking about.
The truth is that in America we have made real progress in terms of fighting racism over the years.
And I want to thank the people of Iowa for their courage in voting for Obama in 2008.
And what you showed is that a state, which is mostly white, could go beyond the color of a candidate’s skin and vote for somebody based on their character and their ideas. Thank you, Iowa.
But anyone who reads the papers, anyone who looks at TV understands that we still have a long way to go.
Anyone who has seen the tapes of Sandra Bland or Samuel Debose understand that it is unacceptable that African-Americans can get taken out of their cars, thrown to the ground, assaulted, and thrown into jail and die three days later. That is not what this country is supposed to be about.

So you are looking at a candidate who, if elected President, will do everything that he can to end the stain of racism and institutional racism in this country and bring about major criminal justice reforms.
I was a mayor for eight years and I worked with our police department. And the truth is most cops are good – very difficult job, they do the right thing.
And it’s a very hard job. But when a police officer or any other public official breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth, including China.
We have a disproportionate number of people in jail who are black or Hispanic.
So we’ve got a lot of work to do with criminal justice.
Number one, I will end this absurdity of having private corporations making billions out of jails.
We are going to end this minimum sentencing by which too many people have criminal records.
And when people go to jail, I want to make sure that there is a pathway for them out of jail.
If people leave jail without money, without jobs, without education, without housing, without mental health issues being dealt with, the likelihood is they’re going to end up back in jail and that is pretty crazy.
So what I want to see is I want to see us invest heavily in jobs and education, not jail and incarceration.
Now, let me just conclude by telling you one thing that no other candidate will tell you and that is I need your help obviously to win here in Iowa. And I appreciate the support of so many people.
But if we are going to transform America, if we are going to have a government that represents working families and not large campaign donors, we need a political revolution in this country.
We need millions of people to stand up and make it clear to the billionaire class they cannot have it all. They are going to start paying their fair share of taxes. They are not going to continue to ship out jobs to China and elsewhere.
But to make all of that happen, we need a strong grassroots political movement from Vermont to California and significantly here in Iowa.
So I welcome and urge all of you to join me in helping to make a political revolution which transforms America, which creates a government that works for all of us and not just a handful.
Thank you all very much!

…We began this campaign about 3.5 months ago. And when we began this campaign, people were saying, “Well, you know Bernie Sanders’s an interesting guy but, you know, it’s kind of a fringey type candidate.”
I mean, no one takes seriously the idea that maybe, just maybe, we need a political revolution in America.
Maybe, just maybe, something is wrong when almost all of the new income is going to the top 1%.
Maybe, just maybe, something is wrong when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more people in jail than any other country.
So all over the country – in New Hampshire and in Iowa – all over the country, thousands and thousands of people started coming out.
A couple of weeks ago, we were on the West Coast. We had 15,000 people in Seattle, 28,000 people in Portland, Oregon, and we had 27,000 people in Los Angeles.
So it seems to me that the ideas that we are talking about are not fringe ideas. They are the ideas that the American people support.
This is a campaign on the move and it’s a campaign that’s going to win here in South Carolina and all across the country.
But the enthusiasm and the excitement for this campaign is not just large turnouts like we saw earlier today in Greenville, and we’re seeing here in Columbia.
What it is is I think people also understand that there is something profoundly wrong when millionaires and billionaires today control our political system.
Well, let me be very clear. I do not represent the billionaires’ agenda. I do not want their money. We are not going to have any super PAC at all.
We are raising money for this campaign in the very old-fashioned way – small contributions from some 400,000 Americans. Average contribution $31.20. I’m proud of that.
What this campaign is about is bringing people together with the understanding that if we do not allow ourselves to be divided, if we stand together as black and white and Hispanic, Native American, men and women, straight and gay, native-born and immigrant, if we stand together, they may have all of the money, they may have all of the power, but we have the people and when people stand together, we win.
You know, wherever I go around the country, you know, media come up to me and they say, “You know, we’re really surprised. Why is there so much excitement? Why is there so much enthusiasm? Why are you moving up in the polls?”
And let me tell you what my answer is to them. My answer is that the American people are sick and tired with establishment politics. They are sick and tired with establishment economics. And frankly, they are sick and tired of establishment media.
The people of our country fully understand that corporate greed – this never-ending greed of needing more and more and more no matter how much they have – the corporate greed is destroying our economy.

And they also understand and I speak to you as the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, the American people also understand that men and women throughout our history have put their lives on the line and sometimes lost their lives defending democracy and that there is something profoundly wrong when billionaires are buying elections. That’s not democracy.
And the American people also understand better that at a time when this country faces so many enormous problems, when we need so much serious discussion, that much of the corporate media will talk about everything in the world except the most important issues facing working Americans.
Let me be as clear as I can be. This campaign is not about Bernie Sanders. It is not about Hillary Clinton. It is not about Donald Trump, Jeb Bush or anyone else.
This campaign is about you, your kids, your parents, and the future of this country.
As someone who has run for office a number of times in my state of Vermont, I have never run a negative political ad in my life because I believe that what politics and the democracy is about is to take a hard look at the serious problems facing our country and propose ideas and let the American people discuss them.
I think it’s absurd for politicians to say “I’m great. I’m wonderful. Everybody else is terrible.” That’s wrong.
What we need is a serious discussion about the serious issues facing our country and that’s what this campaign is about.
And our campaign is different from other campaigns not only in terms of the fact that we have the most progressive vision but more importantly in how we are running this campaign.
I believe – and let me be honest with you and tell you what no other candidate for President will tell you – that no matter who is elected President of the United States, no matter how good he or she may be, that person cannot address the enormous problems facing working families and the middle class because of the power of big money interests in this country.
That is the truth and it’s an uncomfortable truth.
So what I am calling for is not just your support to elect me as President; I am asking you to be part of a political revolution – a revolution which transforms our country economically, politically, socially, and environmentally.
And let me tell you what this political movement is about…Thank you. I love you too.

What this political movement is about is millions of people from coast to coast standing up and saying loudly and clearly “Enough is enough. This great nation and our government belong to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.”
The truth is – it’s a sad truth – but the truth is that our country faces more serious problems than at any time in the modern history of our country.
And if you throw in the global crisis of climate change, the problems may be worse today.
But we are not going to solve the problems unless we address those problems.
So let me take this opportunity to talk a little bit about some of the major problems facing our country.
And I start with the issue of income and wealth inequality.
Now, today, as some of you know, we live in the wealthiest country in the history of the world. Wealthiest country in the history of the world.
But most Americans don’t understand that, don’t perceive that, don’t feel that because they’re too busy working two or three jobs while almost all of the new income and wealth are going to the top 1%.
The truth is that the United States today has more income and wealth inequality than any other major industrialized nation on Earth.
And the inequality today – if you can believe it – is worse than at any time since 1928.
So what is essentially happening in our country – the people on the top are getting richer and richer. Everybody else is becoming poorer and poorer.
The truth of the matter is that no great nation can survive economically, morally, or politically when so few have so much and so many have so little.
There is something profoundly wrong and profoundly immoral and by the way I think it’s important that we start injecting morality into our political discourse.
There is something profoundly wrong when the top one-tenth of 1% – you got that? Not 1%. One-tenth of 1% (0.10%) owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
There is something profoundly wrong when in recent years we have seen a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires but all over our country millions of people are working longer hours for lower wages and we end up with the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on Earth.
There is something profoundly wrong when one family – one family – this is America, not Paraguay. Not some small third world country. When one family in America – the Walton family of Walmart – owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of the American people.

When millions of people are working longer hours for low wages, when in my state – and I’m sure it’s true in South Carolina as well – many of our people are working two or three jobs, working crazy hours trying to get some income and health care to take care of their family, when all of that is going on while at the same time a handful of billionaires are making out like bandits, this is a rigged economy. A rigged economy.
And together, you and I and millions of other Americans are going to change that.
We are going to create an economy that works for the middle class and working families, not just a handful of billionaires.
This campaign is sending a simple and straightforward message to the billionaire class and that is you cannot, you will not have it all.
The CEOs of large corporations and the billionaire class are not going to continue to get huge tax breaks when children in America go hungry.
They are not going to continue to send our jobs to China and other low-wage countries when millions of Americans are in desperate need of work right here.
Corporate America and the billionaire class are not going to hide their many billions in profits by putting them in the Cayman Islands and in other tax havens; they are going to start paying their fair share of taxes.
And whether they like it or not, their greed is going to end because we are going to end it for them.
And when we talk about the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality, let me bring it on home right here to what it means to the people in South Carolina.
In the last two years, the wealthiest 14 people in America – 14 people – saw their wealth increase by $156 billion. But here in South Carolina, while 14 people saw an unbelievable increase in their wealth, 27% of the children here are living in poverty – almost 300,000 children.
14 people increased in wealth $156 billion; 27% of the kids in South Carolina living in poverty.
Of those children living in poverty, 138,000 are black, 95,000 are white, and 34,000 are Hispanic.
Childhood poverty impacts people all across the board. It is a national disgrace.
And here’s the reality. Let’s lay it right on the table.
Billionaires become much richer while children in South Carolina and all over America lack adequate nutrition.
In the year 2015 in South Carolina, in Vermont, and throughout America, children are going hungry.
It is not acceptable that billionaires become richer when kids of this country go hungry.

If we are a moral people, we stand with the most vulnerable people, the most defenseless people in our society.
To turn out backs on the children while billionaires get richer is not what this country is supposed to be about.
And when we talk about human rights and when we talk about basic needs, let us not forget that we are the only major industrialized country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right.
Now, I live in Burlington, Vermont. It’s an hour away from the Canadian border. The Canadians guarantee health care to every one of their men, women, and child.
In the U.K., they guarantee health care to all of their people. Germany does it. France does it. Scandinavia does it.
Every major country on Earth does it except us. And that is why I strongly believe in a Medicare for all single-payer program.
I believe in single-payer but that’s not what the Congress believe in. But the Congress did pass and the President did sign the Affordable Care Act – a modest but important step forward.
By expanding eligibility for Medicaid, millions of Americans now have health insurance who previous lack it. That is a good thing.
The Affordable Care Act, for example, has cut Arkansas’s uninsured population almost in half.
It has reduced the number of uninsured in Kentucky from 20% to 12%.
In South Carolina, over 200,000 people would gain health insurance if the governor and the legislature would approve the expansion of Medicaid.
And not only would several hundred thousand people gain health insurance, the state would create tens of thousands of decent-paying jobs. And the federal government picks up almost all of the bill. Pretty good deal.
In my view, it is wrong – terribly wrong – to allow a rigid, right-wing political ideology to stand in the way of health care for hundreds of thousands of South Carolinians.
It is wrong to allow hundreds of people in your state to die unnecessarily because they can’t get to a doctor when they should.
It is wrong and immoral to have a situation where people will suffer and become much sicker than they otherwise would have been because they don’t have Medicaid. That’s wrong.

And I would hope very much that not only here in South Carolina but all across this country Republican governors and legislatures would let go for one minute of their right-wing ideology and take care of the people of their states.
I understand that some of these governors and some of these legislatures hate President Obama. You can hate President Obama but don’t hate the kids and the working families in your state.
The issues we are talking about are not just the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality. It is the reality as all of you know that for the last 40 years the great middle class of our country – once the envy of the world – has been disappearing.
Now, the truth is as you all know we are much better off economically today than we were when George Bush left office.
Let us not forget that when Bush left office, we were hemorrhaging 800,000 jobs a month, our financial system was on the verge of collapse, and we were running up a $1.4 trillion deficit.
And I find it interesting Republicans complain that we’re only growing 250,000 jobs a month. Well, it’s a hell of a lot better than losing 800,000 jobs a month.
But here is the point – yes, we are better off today than when Bush left office. That’s true. But, the reality is that millions of Americans today are working longer hours for lower wages.
All of you know there has been an explosion in technology making workers far more productive than they used to be.
And yet, many of those workers – despite increased productivity – has seen their real wages go down.
Since 1999, median family income today is almost $5,000 less than it was in 1999.
So that is our reality. We’re better off than we were 6.5 years ago, but we continue to slide and see the disappearance of our middle class.
And what we have got to do is come up with proposal after proposal that rebuild the crumbling middle class in this country and that’s what we intend to do.
Now, let me tell you something that very few people will tell you. Every month, U.S. government comes out with figures. Last figure says unemployment in America is 5.3%. Wrong. That official statistic does not include those people who have given up looking for work and the millions of people who were working part-time. Add all that together, real unemployment over 10%.
Further, and this is really something that we must deal with, we cannot continue to push under the rug.
I asked the Economic Policy Institute in D.C. to do a study on youth unemployment.
Do you know what youth unemployment is in this country in terms of kids who have no jobs or are working part-time when they want to work full-time?
What the EPI told us is that for kids 17 to 20 who graduated high school, if they were white – youth unemployment 33%; if they were Hispanic – youth unemployment 36%; if they were African-American – youth unemployment 51%.
We are turning our backs on an entire generation of young people who want to stand on their own two feet.

Let me tell you something else. One of the great shames in our country, one of the great international embarrassments is we as a nation have more people in jail than any other country.
China – a nation three times larger than us, a Communist authoritarian country – has fewer people in jail than we do.
And if anybody here thinks there is not a connection between huge rates of youth unemployment and kids ending up in jail, you would be very, very mistaken.
Right now, in my state, in your state, and all over this country, we’ve got 5.5 million young people who are not in school, who are not working, who are hanging out on street corners and getting into trouble.
Now, in my view, it makes a lot more sense for us to be investing in education and in jobs.
It makes more sense to be investing in our young people than in jails and incarceration.
And when we talk about the economy, it’s not just income and wealth inequality, and it is not just high rates of unemployment that we have to address.
It is the simple fact that everybody in this room knows that millions of our people are working in wages that are too damn low.
The current minimum wage at the federal level of $7.25 an hour – $7.25 an hour – is a starvation wage.
And our job is to raise the federal minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour over the next several years.
It is not a radical idea to say that if somebody works 40 hours a week, that person should not be living in poverty.
And when we talk about fairness in wages, I hope very much that every man in this room will stand with the women and demand pay equity for women workers.
There are too many women in America trying to bring up their families who are making 78 cents on the dollar compared to men.
Pay equity will take a huge chunk out of poverty in America and we must fight to establish pay equity.

I think all of you know that many of my Republican colleagues run around the country and they talk about family values. They just love families.
But you know – you all know what they mean when they talk about family values. What they are saying is that women in America should not be able to control their own bodies. I disagree.
What they are saying in their concept of family values is that women are too dumb to be able to buy the contraceptives they need. I disagree.
And what they are also saying in their understanding of family values is that our gay brothers and sisters should not be able to get married and enjoy all of the benefits of American citizenship. I disagree.
I am very fortunate to have four kids, seven grandchildren, and Jane and I have been married for 27 years.
And we believe in family and we believe in strongly protecting the needs of families.
But my family values are a little bit different than Republican family values.
When I talk about family values, I believe that the United States must end the international embarrassment of being the only – only – major country on Earth that does not guarantee workers paid medical and family leave.
When a woman has a baby today, if she has the income and the financial support, she can stay home and get to love her baby, bond with her baby, and it is obviously for those of us who are parents one of the most amazing experiences of being human.
And it’s pretty important for the baby as well.
That’s a family value. It is a family value when mom stays, nourishes her baby, gets to know her baby. Dad is there as well.
It is not a family value to tell that mom that just because you don’t have money, you have to separate yourself from your baby and go back to work in five days or eight days. That is not a family value.
And that is why I have supported and will fight for legislation that guarantees every family in America 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.
That is a family value. And if every other major country on Earth could do it, the United States of America can do it too.
And by the way, we remain the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee sick time for our workers or paid vacation. That’s got to change too.
With real unemployment over 10%, youth unemployment much higher than that, we need a major federal jobs program to put millions of people back to work.
At a time when our infrastructure is crumbling, our roads, our bridges, our water systems, wastewater plants, airports, rail, levies, dams, there is more than enough work to do.

And I’ve introduced legislation $1 trillion investment over five years can create up to 13 million decent paying jobs.
But when we talk about jobs, it is not only the absolute imperative of having to create millions of jobs. It is also the absolute need to prevent the loss of more jobs because of our disastrous trade policies.
You are looking at a Senator and a former member of the House who voted against NAFTA, CAFTA, and permanent normal trade relations with China.
And you are looking at a Senator who will help lead the effort against the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
We need trade policies which create jobs in America, not in countries around the world.
And when we use words like greed and recklessness and arrogance and dishonesty, we are providing some of the adjectives to describe Wall Street.
All of you know, all of you know, that as a result of the greed and recklessness of Wall Street, our economy was brought to its knees. Millions of people lost their jobs, their houses, and their life savings.
Today, after bailing out Wall Street because they were “too big to fail”, three out of the four largest banks are bigger now than they were before we bailed them out.
In my view – and let me be very clear about this – when you have six banks issuing two-thirds of the credit cards in this country, 35% of the mortgages in this country, when you have banks that are too big to fail, they are too big to exist.
We need a financial system which provides affordable loans to small and medium size businesses so they can create the jobs we need.
We do not need a financial system on Wall Street, which is an island onto itself, which is only concerned about profits for a handful of people.
I am often asked – I’m often asked – “Well, Bernie, which of the issues out there is the most important?” And it’s impossible to answer because all of these issues are enormously important.
But here is one issue that impacts every other issue and that is five years ago as you all know, the Supreme Court by a five to four decision in the Citizens United case, what they said to the wealthiest people in this country they said “You guys already own much of the economy. We are now going to allow you to own the United States government.” And that is exactly what they are trying to do right now.
We have a situation right now where one family – the extreme right wing Koch brothers – the second wealthiest family in America is prepared to spend some $900 million in this election cycle. $900 million.

That is more money than either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party will spend.
When you have one family spending more money than either of the major political parties, that is not democracy. That is oligarchy…
I have not made many campaign promises. But this is one I have made and I repeat to you.
No nominee of mine to the United States Supreme Court will get that position unless he or she is loud and clear in saying that one of their first orders of business will in fact to re-hear and overturn Citizens United.
I am a passionate believer in democracy. I really believe in democracy.
And what that means – what that very radical idea means – only a few hundred years old – what that idea means is that you and people all over this country – poor people, old people, anybody has the right to determine and shape the future of our country and not just a king or a queen or a handful of billionaires. That is a radical idea that I believe.
And in my view not only must we overturn Citizens United, we’ve got to go further.
I want to see this country have the most vibrant democracy of any country on Earth. I want to see us have one of the highest voter turnouts not one of the lowest voter turnouts.
I want to see a process in which anybody in this room, anybody in America whether you’re conservative, progressive, moderate, whatever you may be, if you believe that you want to get into public service, you want to run for office, you believe in your ideas, I want to see you be able to run for office without begging money from the wealthy and the powerful.
A couple of weeks ago in Washington, I was at an event with Martin Luther King III and people in the Southern Christian Leadership Conference – a very good civil rights organization. And what we talked about at that meeting was to first of all celebrate the 50th anniversary…of the enormously important Voting Rights Act. Okay?
And what the Voting Rights Act was about was to say to governors and legislatures all over this country – many in the South – to say “Sorry, all people are going to be able to vote regardless of the color of their skin.”
That was a great step forward for democracy.
But as many of you know, two years the Supreme Court gutted a very important provision of the Voting Rights Act.
And what has happened is all over the country – not just in the South but all over this country – governors and legislatures have done everything possible to suppress the vote, to deny people the right to vote, because those people disagree with the powers that be in their own state.
You know, and I take kind of personally and I will tell you why. I have run for office in my own state many, many times. Sometimes I’ve lost; most times I’ve won.
But it has never occurred to me – never, not for one second – to say “Let’s see, there are parts of the state that are not sympathetic to me. How do I figure out a way to prevent those people from voting?”

…If you cannot run for office and defend your ideas, then you shouldn’t run for office in the first place.
People, legislatures, governors who try to prevent people from voting because they may vote against the governors or the legislatures are nothing less than political cowards.
I have introduced legislation which more or less says that if you are 18 years of age in the United States of America, you are registered to vote. End of discussion.
I think all of you know that the world we are living in is a very competitive global economy.
And if our nation is going to succeed economically, we need to have the best educated workforce in the world.
And what saddens me very, very much is as we speak here tonight, there are hundreds of thousands of bright young men and women all across this country – kids who have done really well in school, kids who are qualified to get into college – but they can’t get into college for one reason: Their families lack the money.
To my mind, it is not only unfair to these kids to deny them the right to become doctors or engineers or teachers or scientists or whatever else, not only unfair to them to pull the ladder out from underneath them but it is absurd when we talk about the future of the American economy.
We need to have the best educated workers in the world.
And that is why I have introduced legislation which does two very important things.
First, it says that every public college and university in America will be tuition free.
And I want to tell you why this idea – this simple idea – is a revolutionary idea. It’s not just that it will make life easier for kids in high school to get to college. It will certainly do that.
But this is what else it will do.
Today, in Columbia, in Burlington, Vermont, there are kids in the fourth and sixth grade, these are kids whose mom and dad never went to college, which is the case in my family. These are kids who don’t know anybody who went to college.
And the idea of going to college, of making it into the middle class, is something beyond their wildest expectations or dreams.
But if we tell every kid in Columbia and in Burlington, Vermont, that if you study, if you pay attention to school, if you do your work, you will be able to get a college education.
It will impact kids from the first grade on up.
And the second thing we have done in our legislation is to address the absurdity of millions of Americans – some young, some not so young – who are struggling with horrendously oppressive student debt.
I have talked to a young woman whose crime in life was she went to medical school is practicing primary health care for low-income people. Exactly the kind of doctors we need.

But for doing that, she came out of school $300,000 in debt.
And I was in Iowa a few months ago, a young woman came up to me and she said, “I just graduated dental school $400,000 in debt.” At a time when we have a major dental crisis and we need more dentists.
I talk to young people who are paying off 20%, 25% of their limited incomes in student debt, can’t afford to get married, can’t afford to get a car, can’t afford to get a home.
Now, in my view, it makes no sense at all, that if you can refinance your home today at 2% or 3% or 4%, you should not be paying 8% or 10% on your student debt.
Further, the federal government, which holds most of that debt, should not be profiteering with high interest rates off working class Americans.
Now, people say to me all of the time, they say “Well, Bernie, that’s a good idea. It’s an important issue but, you know, it’s going to be pretty expensive to provide public colleges and universities tuition free and lower student debt. How are you going pay for it?”
Well, let me tell you exactly how I’m going to pay for it – with a tax on Wall Street speculation.
When Wall Street destroyed this economy because of their greed and recklessness, they went begging to the middle class to bail them out.
Now, it is Wall Street’s time to bail out the middle class.
When we talk about our responsibilities as human beings, as parents, as adults, there is perhaps nothing more important than leaving this planet in a way that is habitable for our kids and our grandchildren.
The debate is over. The scientific community in a virtually unanimous voice has told us climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already today causing devastating problems in our country and all over the world.
And what the scientists tell us if we do not get our acts together in a very short period of time, a bad situation today will become much, much worse with a planet temperature rising by the end of the century between 5 and 10 degrees Fahrenheit. More drought. More flood. More extreme weather disturbances. More rising sea levels, more acidification of the ocean.
The United States has the moral responsibility to lead the world in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.

Let me say a word about values and priorities.
I am the Ranking Member on the Senate Budget Committee, which means I’m the leader of Democrats in opposition.
Now, I want to just tell you for a moment what many of you don’t know because the media forgot to talk about it.
And that is the budget passed by the Republicans a few months ago does the following:
It throws $27 million Americans off of health care.
It cuts Pell Grants by $90 billion over a 10-year period.
It cuts nutrition programs, including the WIC program for pregnant women and their little kids, by billions and billions of dollars.
Those are the priorities of the Republican Party. Those are not America’s priorities.
And to add insult to injury not only are they making massive cuts in health care, education, nutrition, and other vitally important programs, their budget proposes to give $250 billion in tax breaks to the top two-tenths of 1% (0.2%).
So let me tell my Republican colleagues, no, we are not going to cut Social Security. We are going to expand Social Security.
No, we are not going to cut veterans programs. We’re going to expand veterans programs.
And we are going to provide the best quality health care to our veterans who have put their lives on the line to defend this country.
And when we talk about making our country the kind of nation that it must become, we must talk about ending institutional racism and making major reforms to our broken criminal justice system.
Now, the good news is that over the last several decades, our country has made significant progress in overcoming our long legacy of racism. Now, we should be proud of that.
If people were sitting in this room 30 years ago and somebody said, “You know, I think in America in year 2008 an African-American could be elected President, that the people of America will go beyond the color of one’s skin and look at his ideas, his views”, people would have said “No. It wouldn’t happen that fast.”
But it did happen and we should be proud of that.
We should be proud of the progress we have made and the struggle absolutely continues against sexism in this country and opening doors to women that never existed before.
God only knows that that struggle continues. But we are making progress and we should be very proud of the extraordinary progress we have made in recent years in the fight for gay rights. Something we should be very proud of.
Now that is the good news, and we as Americans deserve a pat on the back for doing – making real progress in making us a less discriminatory society in many respects.

But here is the bad news and that is as everyone in this room knows, racism remains a much too real part of American life.
And in that regard, I am not just talking about the sickness of a man who could walk into a Bible study class in Charleston, pray with people in that room and then take out a gun and kill nine of them.
That is just something that is almost impossible for us to understand how somebody can do that.
And we are not just talking about other forms of racism that we see every single day.
We are not just talking about the hundreds of hate groups that exist all over this country – groups that exist for one purpose alone and that is to foment – it’s hard to imagine – but to foment hatred against African-Americans or gays or immigrants or Jews – people are different than them.
And we have got to take, by the way, a hard look at those groups. Justice Department should be much more active in making sure – these are the types of groups that “educated” that sick man who committed the atrocity in Charleston.
But I’m not just talking about those groups. I am talking about people like Sandra Bland and Michael Brown and Rekia Boyd and Walter Scott and Freddie Gray and many, many unarmed African-Americans who died at the hands of police officers or in police custody.
Now, I was a mayor for eight years and let me be the first to tell you as someone who worked very hard with our police department that being a cop today is not an easy job.
And most police officers are honest and are trying to do their best in difficult circumstances.
But let me also tell you that as in the case of any other public official when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
Further we need fundamental reform of a broken, broken criminal justice system.
There’s a lot to talk about but let me very briefly highlight some of the areas that I believe we need to move aggressively in.
When I turn on the TV and I see in some cities – small cities all over America – police departments that are heavily militarized, that look like an invading army, that’s wrong.
The best police departments in America are police departments that are part of the community where people feel comfortable with police officers and are able to say “Look, there’s a crack house down the street” or “That guy’s a drug dealer”, where people have confidence in a police force that is working with them not against them.
And when I was mayor of Burlington, we moved toward the concept of community policing – something that I think we should do – making police officers part of the community.
We also – police departments are run by local communities but the federal government can play an important role. Police departments all across America should reflect the diversity of the community they serve.

We also need to take a hard look at the use of force doctrine that exists in many police departments.
Good police officers – I’ve seen it personally many, many times – are able to deflect a volatile situation. That’s good police work. And many officers are trained to do that and that’s tough stuff.
I’ve seen police officers get in the middle of a fight, separate people. We should understand that lethal force is the last resort not the first.
We need to begin rethinking the war on drugs.
I find it remarkable and disturbing that many young Americans have received a criminal record for smoking or possessing marijuana but not one Wall Street executive has a criminal record for destroying our economy.
When Congress reconvenes in September, I will be offering legislation which ends the absurdity and unjustice [sic] of private corporations making profits by building and running jails.
Corporations should not be making a profit on the incarceration of Americans.
Further, we need to understand that substance addiction, whether it’s drugs or alcohol or whatever, is a disease, is a disease. It is a serious disease that exists in my state, exists all over this country. And we need to aggressively treat that disease and not see it as a crime.
And that means that we need to invest in drug courts and medical and mental health intervention.
It is pretty crazy situation – it is an absurd situation when many of the people in jail are mentally ill.
And I can tell you, I get calls in my office, other Senators get calls from people who say “You know what? My brother – I am really worried about him. I don’t know what he’s going to do to himself. I don’t know what he’s going to do to somebody else. But we cannot find the mental health counseling that we need and can afford.” That’s crazy.
And we also need to develop a path back from prison. Nobody should be shocked that if somebody leaves prison without a job, without education, without decent housing, they will go back to the environment that they got into jail in the first place.
So we have got a lot of work to do on criminal justice. But keep in mind, it costs more money to keep somebody in jail than to send them to Harvard.

And when we talk about bringing our people together, let us not forget that today there are 11 million undocumented people in this country.
I was in Phoenix a few weeks ago talking to a group of young Hispanic kids, tears rolling out of their eyes because they were fearful of being deported or having their parents deported.
We need to provide legal protection now for the undocumented.
We need comprehensive immigration reform and we need a path toward citizenship.
A number of years as all of you will recall there was a fierce debate about whether the United States should go to war in Iraq.
I listened to what Bush and Cheney and Don Rumsfeld had to say and I didn’t believe them. I voted against the war in Iraq.
And it doesn’t make me happy – it surely doesn’t – to tell you that much of what I said during that debate – go to YouTube look at what I said during that debate – sadly, much of what I feared would happen did happen in terms of the destabilization of the region.
And now, as you know, there’s another debate and that debate will come to some fruition I suppose in September with a vote about the President’s plan to make certain that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon.
Now, I find it astounding that many of my Republican colleagues seem to have forgotten what the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have done to our people and to our country.
They forgot about the 6,700 brave men and women who died. They forgot about the young men who came home without legs and arms and eyesight. They forgot about the 500,000 who came home with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
And by the way, if this country stands for anything we’ve got to stand with those people who came home from war injured in body and soul.
But now, the debate is over Iran, and whether or not Congress should approve the agreement worked on by the President and Secretary Kerry.
Well, I don’t think this is a perfect agreement. The United States had to negotiate with five other countries plus Germany plus Iran. But I believe, we should do everything possible to see that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon without going to war.
And it really, really does trouble me how quickly and easily and how glibly in a sense – people say “Oh no, we don’t want this agreement. We don’t trust Iran. We don’t like Iran.” And what they’re really saying is “Yeah, we’re going to go to war against Iran.”
Now, a great nation is a nation that does everything possible to cultivate in this very difficult and crazy world.
Believe, nobody, nobody has any answers to all of the craziness in this world – ISIS and everything else.
But we should be a leader in the world in trying to resolve international conflict in a peaceful way and not in another war.

You have been very kind tonight in this rather hot room.
Let me close by just saying two things:
First, this campaign honestly is not about me. It is about all of us. I cannot do it alone.
We need millions of people to reach out, to bring people into the political process, to make certain that our friends and family do not continue to vote against their best interest.
And the second and last point that I want to make is I want you all not to think small. I want you to think big.
This is the wealthiest country in the history of – if we were a poor country, if we were a Haiti, if we were a small country, we would say, “Well, it’s too bad. We can’t do this. We can’t do that.” That is not America.
We can – we can – join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people as a right.
We can have the best child care system in the world, not a dysfunctional one.
We can join other countries and make sure that every person in this country regardless of income can get a higher education.
We can make certain that every senior in our country can live in dignity and security.
We can make certain that every veteran who has put his or her life on the line to defend us gets the quality health care and benefits they have earned.
And we can make certain that no American regardless of their race, their religion, their disability or their sexual orientation, we can make sure that all Americans realize the full potential of equality that is our birthright as Americans.
If we stand together as a nation, if we do not allow them to divide us up by race or sexual orientation or the country we came from, there is nothing – nothing – that together we cannot accomplish.
Thank you all very much.
…I understand that there are Republicans who proclaim how much they love America but at the same time how much they hate the people who work in our government or who are involved in the political process.
I disagree.
In my view what you are doing, participating in the political process, trying to make this country a better country for all of our people is the most patriotic thing we can do as Americans and I applaud you all.
When I announced my candidacy for President less than four months ago, I think it is fair to say that few took that candidacy seriously.
In fact, the word “fringe” was heard more than once.
But I think it is also fair to say that a lot has changed in the last few months.
All across this country we have drawn some of the largest crowds of this campaign, including many young people and working people who have not previously been involved in the political process.
More than 100,000 Americans have signed up to volunteer on Bernie 2016.
We have received more individual campaign contributions than any other presidential campaign. Some 400,000.
And in this day of super PACs and huge campaign contributions, I am very proud to tell you that our average campaign contribution is $31.20. This is a people’s campaign.
Most importantly, I believe that few are denying that the issues that we are running on are generating an enormous amount of enthusiasm and that our grassroots campaign, which is calling for a political revolution, is striking a cord all over America.
My friends, my friends the Republican Party did not win the mid-term election in November; we lost that election. They didn’t win; we lost because voter turnout was abysmally embarrassingly low and millions of working people, young people, and people of color gave up on politics as usual and they stayed home. That’s the fact.
And let me be as clear as I can be. In my view, Democrats will not retain the White House, will not regain the Senate or the U.S. House, will not be successful in dozens of governor’s races all across this country unless we generate excitement and momentum and produce a huge voter turnout.
With all due respect – and I do not mean to insult anyone here – that turnout, that enthusiasm will not happen with politics as usual.
The same-old, same-old will not work.
The people of our country understand that given the collapse of the American middle class and given the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality we are experiencing, we do not need more establishment politics or establishment economics.
What we need is a political movement, which is prepared to take on the billionaire class and create a government which works for all of us and not just corporate America and a handful of the wealthiest people in this country.
In other words, we need a movement which takes on the economic and political establishment not one which is part of that establishment.
We need a movement which tells corporate America and the wealthiest people in this country that they will start paying their fair share of taxes.
That we will end the obscenity of living in a country where the top one-tenth of 1% (0.10%) owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%. That is not the kind of economy we want.
We need a movement which tells Wall Street that when a bank is too big to fail, that bank is too big to exist and we’re going to break them up.
We need a financial system that works with small and medium size businesses, not an island onto itself only concerned about the profits of the few.
We need a movement which works with our trade unions and ends our disastrous trade policies which have cost us millions of decent paying jobs.
And that includes defeating the TPP.
Corporate America has got to start investing in our country, not just countries all over the world.
We need a movement which says that every worker in this country deserves a living wage, that understands that the current minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage, and that we are going to raise that minimum wage over a period of a few years to $15 an hour.
That we are going to end the disgrace of women making 78 cents on the dollar compared to men. We are going to have pay equity for women workers.
And we are going to end the international embarrassment of being the only, only major country on Earth that does not provide at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.
We need a movement which says that when real unemployment, including those who have given up looking for work and those who are working part-time, is over 10%, when black youth unemployment is over 50%, that we need a massive federal jobs program to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
Our roads, our bridges, our water systems, our waste water plants, our airports, our rail are falling further and further behind other countries. We can create millions of jobs rebuilding our infrastructure and I intend to do that.
We need a political grassroots movement which tells the Koch brothers and the billionaire class that they will not be able to continue to buy candidates and elections and that we will –
I have not made many campaign promises so far. But let me repeat one to you that I have made and that is no nominee of mine to the U.S. Supreme Court will have his or her name go to the Senate unless that candidate is loud and clear in saying that one of the first orders of business for that candidate would be to rehear and overturn Citizens United.
But we have got to go even further than overturning Citizens United.
If we want a vibrant democracy where all Americans who want to run for office are able to do so, we need to move to a public funding of elections.
And by the way, together we are going to end this cowardly voter suppression that Republican governors are imposing on people all across America.
If a politician is too cowardly to face the voters, if a politician needs to think that he must suppress the vote in order to win, that politician should get another job.
We need a movement that understands that climate change is real. It is caused by human activity. And that we are going to lead the world in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And brothers and sisters, that means defeating the Keystone Pipeline.
We need a movement that says in a highly competitive global economy that all of our people who have the ability and the qualifications will be able to get a college education regardless of the income of their families.
And that is why I have introduced legislation that does two things.
First, it makes every college and public university in America tuition-free.
Secondly, it substantially lowers interest rates on student debt.
And we pay for that by imposing a Wall Street speculation tax.
When Wall Street collapsed because of their greed and illegal behavior, the American people bailed them out. Now it is their turn to help the middle class of this country.
We need a political movement which once and for all will end institutional racism in our country and reform a very, very broken criminal justice system.
We must not accept more debts of unarmed blacks like Sandra Bland or Michael Brown…Eric Garner, Walter Scott and too many to name, too many to name.
We must not continue being the country in the world with more people in jail than any other.
And the people in jail are disproportionately people of color.
We must become the country in the world which invests in jobs and education, not jails and incarceration.
And when we talk about bringing our country together, we cannot forget that there are now 11 million people here who are undocumented. We must provide legal protections for them. We must pass comprehensive immigration reform. And we must provide a path toward citizenship.
And we must be clear that the racist and un-American idea that we are going to somehow round up millions of people in the dead of the night is not what this country is about and it’s not going to happen.
You are looking at a former Congressman who did not believe George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, and Don Rumsfeld and who voted against the war in Iraq.
A war which turned out to be one of the worst foreign policy blunders in the modern history of this country.
And you are looking at a Senator who will stand with President Obama in preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon but will do it in a way that prevents war.
Let me conclude by saying this. One of the demands of my campaign is that we as a people think big not small. Not accept this right wing ideology and world view. Not a question of cutting education by 2% or 4% or throwing people off of health care.
We can – if we do not allow them to divide us up by race or gender or whether we’re straight or whether we’re born in America or born someplace else – if we stand together there is nothing that we cannot accomplish.
We can live in a country where health care is a right for all people, not a privilege.
We can live in a country where when mom and dad go to work, they know their kids have the best quality child care in the world.
We can live in a country where seniors retire in dignity and security and not be forced to choose between their medicine and their food.
And that is why I am helping to lead the effort in the Senate not only to oppose the privatization in Social Security or cuts in Social Security but to expand Social Security benefits.
We can live in a nation where our veterans – the men and women who put their lives on the line to defend us – get the quality health care and the benefits they have earned and the respect that they are due.
Brothers and sisters, we can live in a nation where everyone no matter their race, their religion, their disability or their sexual orientation – realizes the full promise of equality that is our birth right as Americans. This is the country we can build. It is the country we must build…
If we stand together, that is the country we will build.
Thank you very much.
Morning. Thanks very much for being here.
Let me say a special word of thanks to my long-time friend, Congressman Elijah Cummings of Baltimore. I think there’s nobody in the House who’s worked harder over the years to address the issue that we’re going to talk about now and that is the need to lower the outrageously high price of prescription drugs in this country. Congressman, thank you very much for all that you’ve done.
We are here today to talk about an issue of huge consequence to the American people – an issue that in my view does not get the kind of attention that it deserves.
And that is the fact that the American people today are paying by far the highest prices in the world for the prescription drugs that they need.
When we are talking about health care, we are talking about the need of the American people to be able to afford the medicine their doctors prescribe.
A life-saving drug does nobody any good if the patient cannot afford that product and that is happening far too often in our country.
Last year – this is really quite unbelievable. Last year, nearly one out of every five Americans between the ages of 19 and 64 – that’s 35 million people – did not get their prescriptions filled because they did not have enough money. They couldn’t afford it.
And I remember talking to doctors in working class areas in Vermont and they said “We’re writing our prescriptions and about a quarter of the people they write it for can’t fill the prescriptions.”
What sense is that?
In other words, people all over this country walk into a doctor’s office because they are sick. They pay for their visit. The doctor spends time diagnosing their problems. And then the doctor writes out a prescription to treat the illness but 20% of our people are unable to afford the medicine they need that the doctor had just prescribed.
Then what happens if somebody is sick and doesn’t get the medicine they need? Well, obviously they will get sicker and in some cases they will die.
This is an unacceptable situation that we have to address.
I should tell you that all over this country, people have contacted my office. We have close to 1,000 people who have written to us about the impact of the high cost of prescription drugs on their lives.
And I’ll just read one – and there are many – and this is from a person in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, who writes “ADVAIR – the asthma medicine I need – with my insurance was a couple of hundred dollars. And when I didn’t have insurance, it was over $300. I’m a part-time teacher that didn’t get insurance through work and doesn’t get paid during the summer. Before I can afford to start up insurance again, I had a major asthma attack and I honestly thought I was going to die on the sidewalk.”
So that’s what’s happening to people all over this country who simply cannot afford the medicine they desperately need.
The American people should not have to go without the medication they need because Congress does not have the courage to stand up to one of the most powerful lobbying operations here on Capitol Hill and that is the pharmaceutical industry.
The time has come to say very loudly and clearly that enough is enough. The greed of the pharmaceutical industry is killing Americans and making many of them much sicker than they otherwise would have been.
It has got to stop.
It is unacceptable that while millions of Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs they need, the top 3 pharmaceutical companies made a combined $45 billion in profits last year and spent more on sales and marketing than they did on research and development.
It is unacceptable that total spending on medicine in the United States of America has gone up by more than 90% since 2002.
It is unacceptable that the monthly cost of cancer drugs has more than double in the last 10 years to $990 a month.
And I think many of you have seen a letter written by oncologists talking about how their patients are unable to purchase the cancer drugs that they are prescribing.
Instead of listening to the demands of the pharmaceutical industry and their 1,400 lobbyists – an industry where it spent over $250 million last year on campaign contributions and lobbying expenses – it is about time for Congress to start listening to the vast majority of the American people who know there’s something wrong when we pay by far the highest drug prices in the world.
It is time for the United States to join the rest of the industrialized world by implementing prescription drug policies that work for everybody not just the CEOs of the pharmaceutical industry.
And let me just very briefly summarize some of the components of the bill that Congressman Cummings and I will be introducing today.
First, the bill requires Medicare to use its bargaining power to negotiate with the prescription drug companies for better prices. This is not a radical idea – something that the VA, other government agencies do.
When you purchase a lot of product, you use the power – the leverage – of that bulk purchasing to force down prices.
Two, this bill would allow individuals, pharmacists, and wholesalers to import prescription drugs from licensed Canadian pharmacies where drug prices are 40% lower per person than they are in the United States of America.
Back in 1999, I was the first member of Congress to take Americans over the Canadian border. I lived 100 miles away from Canada. We border Canada in Vermont.
And I will never forget as long as I live women who were struggling with breast cancer purchasing a product they needed – a medicine they needed – for one-tenth of the price that they were paying in the United States of America.
And I know I’ve got a lot of colleagues out there who believe in free trade. They love free trade. And somehow or another despite their great love for free trade, we have distributors who cannot import medicine from Canada. Doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to me.
Number three, this bill will hold the pharmaceutical industry accountable when they defraud the American people.
Today, nearly every pharmaceutical company has been convicted of either civil or criminal fraud.
Fourth, this bill would end pay-for-delay – a practice which brand name prescription drug companies pay other companies not to manufacture cheaper generic drugs.
I’m delighted that the legislation that Congressman Cummings and I are introducing is endorsed by the Alliance for Retired Americans, Social Security Works, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Families USA, and many other groups.
So we are onto an issue that I believe the American people want to resolved. And I’m very proud to be working with Congressman Cummings.
But come on, now. But when we reach that breaking point in light of 1,000% price increases and more – 1,000% and more in price increases – American families are simply just fed up with trying to afford their medications as they watch drug companies rake in record profits.
Just this morning, about an hour ago when I met with the Attorney General Loretta Lynch, I asked her to look into this to try to figure out why this is happening and take appropriate action.
Sen. Sanders and I believe that urgent action is needed to reverse this alarming trend and increase access to life-saving medications to millions of Americans.
That is why I’m very pleased to join him in his effort and in this effort to introducing the House version of the Prescription Drug Affordability Act of 2015.
This bill is a bold and comprehensive approach to reducing prescription drug prices in the United States.
This problem deserves a bold remedy and that’s what we are attempting to do.
It includes reforms that would improve the Medicare and Medicaid programs. It includes common sense changes to make it easier for consumers to access affordable medications and it includes provisions that will enhance transparency, encourage competition, and bring much-needed accountability to the prescription drug industry.
If this bill is enacted, it would help put people before profits, and it would make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible to American families.
Finally, some people are asking why we are doing this when it is clear that Republicans will oppose our efforts.
Well, let me close by again citing another Kaiser Family Foundation survey. An April survey found that the increasing cost of prescription drug prices is now the number one health care issue among 66% of Republicans. In fact, it even displaces the Affordable Care Act as a top issue of concern.
So this is a very real issue for all Americans regardless of whether they’re Democrats, Independents, or Republicans. It is very important to all of them because they are addressing these issues on a day-to-day basis and it is our hope that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will help us get this bill passed in the House and the Senate…
We will continue to fight this fight because we realize that we are trying not only to help people but we’re trying to save lives and that’s what it’s all about.
It is – you cannot with a straight face say that “I believe in free trade and isn’t it wonderful that we’re bringing in lettuce and tomatoes from small farms in Mexico? What a great advent, what a great development!” but somehow you cannot bring brand name drugs from multibillion companies from Canada across the border.
Nobody with a straight face can make that case. So that is one area that I think we’re going to have some bipartisan support.
As the Congressman was mentioning, there are cases now where the price of medicine has gone up by 1,000% for no reason that anybody can understand other than greed.
So to answer your question…this is the health care [issue] perhaps on people’s minds.
…A lot of medicine – a lot of the therapy in medicine – how we get better deals with medicine. You can get the best diagnoses in the world – the best doctor in the world – it doesn’t matter if what he or she prescribes cannot be filled and cannot be utilized.
So this is an issue that millions of people are deeply concerned about.
And if like Sen. Sanders said if somebody gets a prescription, gets the care then gets the prescription and then can’t afford it that’s a real problem.
But the other piece that I think gnaws at me is that it seems to be a thing of greed here, and that bothers me a lot, particularly when people are dying and suffering needlessly.
And so this is a cause which I think is so important and I think that’s why it ranks number one with the American people with regards to health care issues because again they can get the treatment a lot of times but they can’t get the cure. That’s a problem.

…Let me start off by acknowledging what I think all of you already know and that is the views that many here at Liberty University have and I on a number of important issues are very, very different.
I believe in women’s rights and the right of a woman to control her own body.
I believe in gay rights and gay marriage.
Those are my views and it is no secret.
But I came here today because I believe from the bottom of my heart that it is vitally important for those of us who hold different views to be able to engage in a civil discourse.
Too often in our country – and I think both sides, their responsibility for us – there is too much shouting at each other, there is too much making fun of each other.
I was in Greensboro, North Carolina just last night. There were 9,000 people out. Mostly they agree with me. And tonight, we’re going to be in Manassas and thousands out and they agree with me. That’s not hard to do and that’s what politicians by and large do. We go out and we talk to people who agree with us.
But it is harder but not less important for us to try and communicate with those who do not agree with us on every issue.
And it is important to see where if possible – and I do believe it’s possible – we can find common grounds.
Now, Liberty University is a religious school, obviously. And all of you are proud of that.
You are a school which as all of us in our own way tries to understand the meaning of morality, what does it mean to live a moral life, and you try to understand in this very complicated modern world that we live in what the words of the Bible mean in today’s society.

You are a school which tries to teach its students how to behave with decency and with honesty and how you can best relate to your fellow human beings, and I applaud you for trying to achieve those goals.
Let me take a moment or a few moments to tell you what motivates me in the work that I do as a public servant, as a Senator from the state of Vermont.
And let me tell you that it goes without saying I am far, far from being a perfect human but I am motivated by a vision which exists in all of the great religions – in Christianity, in Judaism, in Islam, in Buddhism and other religions – and that vision is so beautifully and clearly stated in Matthew 7:12.
And it states “So in everything do to others what you would have them do to you for this sums up the law and the Prophets.”
That is the golden rule. Do onto others what you would have them do to you. That is the golden rule and it is not very complicated.
Let me be frank. As I said a moment ago, I understand that the issues of abortion and gay marriage are issues you feel very strongly about. We disagree on those issues. I get that.
But let me respectfully suggest that there are other issues out there that are of enormous consequence to our country and in fact to the entire world that maybe – just maybe – we do not disagree on and maybe – just maybe – we can try to work together to resolve them.
Amos 5:24: “But let justice roll on like a river, righteousness like a never failing stream.”
Justice treating the others the way we want to be treated. Treating all people, no matter their race, their color, their stature in life with respect and with dignity.
Now, here is my point. Some of you may agree with me and some of you may not.
But in my view, it would be hard for anyone in this world today to make the case that the United States of America – a great country, a country which all of us love – it would be hard to make the case that we are a just society or anything resembling a just society today.
In the United States of America today, there is massive injustice in terms of income and wealth inequality. Injustice is rampant.
We live – and I hope all of you know this – in the wealthiest country in the history of the world. But most Americans don’t know that because almost all of that wealth and income is going to the top 1%. Now, that’s the truth.

We are living at a time – and I want all of you if you would, put this in the context of the Bible, not me, in the context of the Bible – we are living in a time where a handful people have wealth beyond comprehension.
And I’m talking about tens of billions of dollars – enough to support their families for thousands of years, with huge yachts and jet planes and tens of billions. More money than they would ever know what to do with.
But at that very same moment, there are millions of people in our country let alone the rest of the world who are struggling to feed their families. They are struggling to put a roof over their heads. And some of them are sleeping out on the streets. They are struggling to find money in order to go to a doctor when they are sick.
Now, when we talk about morality and when we talk about justice, we have to in my view understand that there is no justice when so few have so much and so many have so little.
There is no justice – and I want you to hear this clearly – when the top one-tenth of 1% – not 1% – the top one-tenth of 1% (0.10%) today in America owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
And in your hearts, you will have to determine the morality of that and the justice of that.
In my view, there is no justice when here in Virginia, in Vermont, and all over this country, millions of people are working longer hours for abysmally low wages of $7.25 an hour, of $8 an hour, of $9 an hour. Working hard but unable to bring in enough money to adequately feed their kids. And yet at that same time, 58% of all new income generated is going to the top 1%.
You have got to think about the morality of that, the justice of that, and whether or not that is what we want to see in our country.
In my view, there is no justice when we have seen a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires while at the same time the United States of America has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on Earth.
How can we – I want you to go into your hearts – how can we talk about morality, about justice when we turn our backs on the children of our country?
Now, you’ve got to think about it. You have to think about it. You have to feel it in your guts. Are you content? Do you think it’s moral that 20% of the children in this country – the wealthiest country in the history of the world – are living in poverty? Do you think it is acceptable that 40% of African-American children are living in poverty?
In my view, there is no justice and morality suffers when in our wealthy country millions of children go to bed hungry. That is not morality and that in my view is not what America should be about.

In my view, there is no justice when the 15 – 15 – wealthiest people in this country in the last two years – two years – saw their wealth increased by $170 billion. Two years. Wealthiest 15 people in this country saw their wealth increased by $170.
My friends, that is more wealth acquired in a two-year period than is owned by the bottom 130 million Americans.
And while the very, very rich become much richer, millions of families have no savings at all. Nothing in the bank. And they worry every single day that if their car breaks down, they can’t get to work, and if they can’t get to work, they lose their jobs, and if they lose their jobs, they don’t feed their families.
In the last two years, 15 people saw $170 billion increase in their wealth; 45 million Americans live in poverty. That in my view is not justice.
That is a rigged economy designed by the wealthiest people in this country to benefit the wealthiest people in this country at the expense of everybody else.
In my view, there is no justice when thousands of Americans die every single year because they don’t have any health insurance and don’t go to a doctor when they should.
I have talked personally to doctors throughout Vermont and physicians all over this country. And without exception, they tell me that there are times when patients walk into their office very, very sick. And they say “Why didn’t you come here when you were sick?” And the answer is, “I didn’t have any health insurance” or “I have a high deductible”, “I thought the problem would get better.” And sometimes it doesn’t and sometimes they die because they [don’t have] health insurance.
That is not justice. That is not morality.
People should not be dying in the United States of America when they are sick.
What that is is an indication that we are the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right, and I think we should change that.
And I think that when we talk about morality, what we are talking about is all of God’s children – the poor, the wretched – they have a right to go to a doctor when they are sick.
You know, there is a lot of talk in this country from politicians about family values. You’ve all heard that.
Well, let me tell you about a family value.

In my view, there is no justice when low-income and working class mothers are forced to separate from their babies one or two weeks after birth and go back to work because they need the money that their jobs provide.
Now, I know everybody here – we all are – maybe in different ways but all of us believe in family values.
Jane and I have four kids. We have seven beautiful grandchildren. We believe in family values.
But it is not a family value when all of you know that the most important moments in time of a human being’s life is the first weeks and months after that baby is born; that is the moment when mother bonds with the baby, gets to love and know her baby. And that is there as well. That is what a family is about.
And those of you, at least those of you who are parents – more parents back here than there I suspect – you know what an unforgettable moment that is, what an important moment that is.
And I want you to think whether you believe it is a family value that the United States of America is the only, only major country on Earth that does not provide paid family and medical leave.
Now, in English what that means is that all over the world, when a woman has her baby, she is guaranteed the right because society understands how important that moment is – she is guaranteed the right to stay home and get income in order to nurture her baby.
And that is why I believe when we talk about family values that the United States government must provide at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.
In my view, there is no justice in our country when youth unemployment exists at tragic, tragically high levels.
I requested a study last month from a group of economists and what they told me is that 51% of African-American high school graduates between the ages of 17 and 20 are unemployed or under-employed. 51%.
We have in this country sufficient amounts of money to put more people in jail than any other country on Earth…The United States has more people in jail than China – a communist authoritarian country. But apparently we do not have enough money to provide jobs and education to our young people. I believe that’s wrong.
I am not a theologian. I am not an expert on the Bible. Nor am I a Catholic.
I am just a United States Senator from the small state of Vermont. But I agree with Pope Francis who will soon be coming to visit us in the United States – I agree with Pope Francis when he says and I quote “The current financial crisis originated in a profound human crisis: The denial of the primacy of the human person.”
And this is what he writes: “We have created new idols. The worship of the ancient golden calf has returned in a new and ruthless guise in the idolatry of money and the dictatorship of an impersonal economy lacking a truly human purpose.”

And the pope also writes: “There is a need for financial reform along ethical lines that would produce in its turn an economic reform to benefit everyone. Money has to serve, not to rule.”
Now, those are pretty profound words which I hope we will all think about.
In the pope’s view – and I agree with him – we are living in a nation and in a world and the Bible speaks to this issue – in a nation and in a world – which worships not love of brothers and sisters, not love of the poor and the sick, but worships the acquisition of money and great wealth.
I do not believe that is the country we should be living in.
Money and wealth should serve the people; the people should not have to serve money and wealth.
Throughout human history, there has been endless discussion – it is part of who we are as human beings – people who think and ask questions – endless discussion and debate about the meaning of justice and about the meaning of morality.
And I note that here at Liberty University those are the kinds of discussions that you have everyday and those are the kinds of discussions you should be having and the kinds of discussions we should be having all over America.
I would hope and I conclude with this thought. I would hope very much that as part of that discussion and part of that learning process, some of you will conclude that if we are honest and striving to be a moral and just society, it is imperative that we have the courage to stand with the poor, to stand with working people, and when necessary take on very powerful and wealthy people whose greed in my view is doing this country enormous harm.
Thank you all very much.

And I would also say that as a nation the truth is that a nation which in many ways was created – and I’m sorry to have to say this – from way back on racist principles. That’s a fact.
We have come a long way as a nation. Now, I know – my guess is that probably not everybody here is an admirer or a voter for Barack Obama. But the point is that in 2008, this country took a huge step forward in voting for a candidate based on his ideas and not the color of his skin.
And whether you like Obama or not – and I do; he’s a friend of mine and I work with him on many issues – that is a step forward for America.
But let me also say what everybody here knows and my thoughts having just returned from South Carolina, we all know to what degree racism remains alive in this country.
I cannot understand – I really can’t. I think about it. I try to understand it – how a sick man can walk into a Bible study class, discuss the Bible, pray with people in the room, and then take out a gun and kill nine of them because the color of their skins were different than his.
And I cannot understand for the life of me how there can be hundreds of groups in this country whose sole reason for existence is to promote hatred. These are hate groups. And they say “Join us so we hate African-Americans or gays or Jews or immigrants or anybody that is different from us”. I can’t understand that.
But let us be clear that when you have unarmed African-Americans shot…[by police officers] something which has been going on for years that is also institutional racism and cries out for reform.
I am a former mayor who’s worked closely with police officers. Vast majority of them are honest, work hard and do a very good job.
But when a police officer breaks the law as is the case with any other public official, that officer must be held accountable. That’s justice.
And there is a lot to be done in terms of our criminal justice system in terms of minimal sentencing, in terms of local police departments which look like armies that are invading a community.
But to answer your question, I think what we have got to do is when we see instances of racism, when we hear political leaders appeal to the worst elements of us by making racist attacks against people from another country or people whose color may be different than most of us, we have got to stand up and say in America you’re not going to do that. Racism is unacceptable.

I do understand and I do believe that it is improper for the United States government or state government to tell every woman in this country the very painful and difficult choice that she has to make on that issue.
And I honestly don’t want to be too provocative here. But very often conservatives say, you know, “Get the government out of my life. I don’t want the government telling me what to do.”
But on this very sensitive issue of which this nation is divided – a lot of people agree with you, a lot of people agree with me – but my view is I respect absolutely a family that says “No, we are not going to have an abortion.” I understand that and I respect that.
But I would hope that other people respect the very painful and difficult choice that many women feel they have to make and don’t want the government telling them what they have to do.
But, but I want to take that question a step further…
We do disagree on that issue. No ifs and buts about it. I respect your point of view. I hope you respect my point of view.
But here’s where I hope we have common ground. Now, I’m not trying to be partisan during my remarks. I have not.
But I am going to be partisan for a moment because I want to lay this on your shoulders.
I am the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Budget Committee and that means I lead the Democrats in opposition. The Republicans control the House and the Senate.
Now, I want to tell you what was in the Republican budget that passed a number of months ago…
When you talk about issues of children, understand Republican budget threw 27 million people of off health care, including many children.
At a time when many families cannot afford to send their kids to college – and I am running on a program by the way that says every public college and university in America should be tuition free – but at a time when families cannot afford to send their kids to college, Republican budget cut $90 billion in Pell Grants over a 10-year period.
At a time when children in America are going hungry, Republican budget cut billions of dollars in nutrition programs, including money to the WIC program which goes to low-income pregnant women and their babies.
And to add insult to injury, in that budget the Republicans provided over $250 billion over a 10-year period in tax breaks to the top two-tenths of 1% (0.20%).
I don’t think that is a moral budget.

If the question is do we have a moral responsibility not just alone but to work with Europe and by the way to work some of these very, very wealthy Gulf region countries like Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, to help stem this human tragedy which all of us are seeing.
Can you imagine people leaving their homes in Syria or Iraq with simply the clothes on their back…[inaudible]?
Do we have a moral responsibility in working with the rest of the world in providing help, bringing some of those people into this country? The answer is absolutely yes. Absolutely yes.
But this is where it gets tricky. That’s in a sense a reasonably easy response. We should do that.
Here’s where it becomes hard. All of you know that the Middle East and other parts of the world are in a real quagmire. We’re living in a pretty crazy and dangerous world.
We see horror stories every single day of ISIS and people doing barbaric things. We all know that. And this is really where it gets tough.
I voted against the war in Iraq. And I voted against that war because I worry very much – and if you read what I wrote at that time, you’ll find what I’m telling is the truth – about the instability and destabilization that that would bring about.
So the question of U.S. military force becomes part of this discussion.
And let me just say this – I am the former chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs and I would hope that this is an area all of us can agree on that we are going to provide all of the health care and benefits that our veterans need.
But the cost of war…is something that is far greater, I fear, than most people know. And before we go off to war, we have got to make certain that we have explored every other possible option.
You know, people may not know this but as the former chairman, I do. In Iraq and Afghanistan we lost 6,700 brave men and women. Many came home without legs and arms and eyesight. 500,000 of them came home with post traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury. Their lives have been totally disrupted. Families have been separated. Children have suffered.
A great nation like the United States of America with the most powerful military on Earth in my view should use every possible opportunity to resolve international conflict without going to war. War should be the last resort.

But this is what I would like prayers to be for – not just for me. Far more significantly are prayers for our country, prayers for how we bring our people together, prayers for how we can create in the wealthiest country in the history of the world a beautiful country, a country where all people have health care, where all kids who have the ability can go to college, where we have wiped out childhood poverty.
Those are the prayers that I want to join with you in making.
…Well, it certainly sounds like some people are ready for a political revolution.
Let me thank all of you not only for being here today but for the enormously important work you do day after day, understanding that New Hampshire plays a unique role in the political process. You are fighting not only to improve the lives of people in New Hampshire but people all over this country and thanks very much for what you do.
When I announced my candidacy 4.5 months ago, I think it is fair to say that a lot of people did not take our campaign seriously. That’s fair to say.
But it is also fair to say that in the last 4.5 months, change has taken place.
What looked like a fringe campaign is now seen as a campaign that is standing up for working Americans and is prepared to take on the billionaire class.
It’s not just that all across this country we have drawn some of the largest turnouts in our rallies. It’s not just that we have over 400,000 people in this country who have made individual contributions to our campaign.
And let me say a word about that. You’re looking at a candidate who does not represent the agenda of corporate America, who does not represent the agenda of the billionaire class.
And I stand before you today to say loudly and proudly I don’t want their money. I don’t want a Super PAC. We’re going to do it on our own.
I understand that when you have a Super PAC you could walk into a room of millionaires and billionaires and come out with a heck of a lot of money. I get it.
But we are going to do it a different way, and we’re going to raise our funds from working people averaging $31.20 a piece and I’m proud of that.
And let me begin by telling you about an old song, reminding you about an old union song. Some of you remember it. “Which side are you on?” Remember that song?
Now, you’re very lucky because I’m not going to sing that song to you because I can’t sing as some of you may know.
But I grew up in a working class home in Brooklyn, New York. We lived in a 3.5…we grew up in a 3.5 room rent controlled apartment. My family never had money.
But I knew from a very early age which side I am on.
I am a proud progressive. I am proud to stand with the working families of our country, prepared to take on the powerful special interests, which wield incredible power over our economy and our political life.
That is what I did yesterday. That is what I did 25 years ago. That is what I’ll do tomorrow. And that is what I will do if elected President of the United States.
And let me also take a moment to tell you something that no other candidate for President will tell you or perhaps ever has told the American people. It is a simple truth but not widely reported.
And that is no President – not Bernie Sanders, no anybody else – can bring about the enormous changes we need to rebuild our crumbling middle class, to do all of the things we have to do for the elderly, for the children, the sick, and the poor, we cannot do it – no President can do it alone unless we have a political revolution, unless tens of millions of Americans are prepared to stand up to get actively involved in the political process and make it very, very clear that this great country and our government belong to all of us and not just a handful of billionaires and campaign contributors.
So I am here today not just to ask for your help in winning here in New Hampshire, in winning across the country.
If we are going to transform America, we need millions of people to stand together to take on corporate America, to take on Wall Street, to take on the big money interests. That is what this campaign is about.
Let me tell you something else.
Some of you may agree with me and some of you may not.
But in my view, the Republicans did not win the last mid-term elections; we lost those elections.
The American people didn’t vote for a party that wants to give huge tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, nutrition, and which does not even recognize the reality of climate change.
That is not what the American people voted for.
But what happened is we had a voter turnout that was worse than abysmal. Millions of Americans looked down and they said, “You know what? Not for me. I’m not going to vote. I’m not going to participate in the political process.”
We lost that last election because voter turnout was low and because all across this country people are giving up on American democracy.
So let me be very clear. In my view, we will not retain the White House, we will regain control of the Senate, we will not gain the U.S. House or be successful in dozens of governors races across America unless we are the party which generates excitement and momentum and enthusiasm and which produces a huge voter turnout.
Democrats win when the voter turnout is high. Republicans win when the voter turnout is low.
Our job is to make that voter turnout sky high.
And how do we do it? How do we generate excitement on the ground? How do we get those who are disillusioned back into the political process? How do we get young people involved? How do we get working class Republicans to stop voting against their own best interests?
And with all due respect, that will not happen with politics as usual. The same-old, same-old will not likely be successful.
The people of our country understand of course that we are much better off today than we were when President Bush left office and we were losing 800,000 jobs a month and the world’s financial system was on the verge of collapse.
Of course, we are much better off today.
But they also understand something else. That yes, we’re better off than where we were under Bush. But they also understand that for the last 40 years, 40 years, under Democratic and Republican presidents the great middle class of this country once the envy of the world has been disappearing.
And all over New Hampshire, all over my state of Vermont, all over America, despite an explosion of technology and worker productivity, you’ve got millions of people working longer hours for lower wages. You have people in my state and your state not working one job but working two jobs, working three jobs, just trying to cobble together an income that will sustain their families.
And today, we have almost more people living in poverty than in any time in American history.
And what the American people understand and what we cannot run away from and what we have to have the courage to address is that while the middle class continues to disappear and while people work longer hours for lower wages, almost all of the new income and wealth that is being generated is going to the top 1% and that has got to end.
Very few people in America no matter what their political views are believe that it is morally acceptable or economically sustainable when one-tenth of 1% [0.1%] of the American people have more wealth than the bottom 90%.
Very few people think that it is acceptable when you have people all over this country working so hard, long and crazy hours – parents can’t stay home with their kids because they’re working so many hours.
And yet 58% of all new income generated today is going to the top 1%. That is not the economy we need.
We need an economy that works for the working people of this country and not just the billionaire class.
We need a political movement which is prepared to stand up to the most powerful people on this country and to create a government – I know this is a radical idea but imagine having a government in Washington that is not controlled by large campaign donors in corporate America but which represents all of us.
We need a political movement in this country which takes on the political and economic establishment not one which is part of it.
We need a movement which tells corporate America and the wealthiest people in this country that yes, they will start paying their fair share of taxes.
That multinational corporations are not going to continue stashing billions of dollars in profits in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda and other tax havens while children in America go hungry. Ain’t going to happen anymore.
No, the CEOs of large corporations are not going to continue to receive huge compensation packages and incredible pensions while at the same time they cut the wages and health care and pensions of their workers. Not going to continue to happen.
No, we are not going to continue to have disastrous trade policies like NAFTA, CAFTA, or permanent normal trade relations with China with corporate America shutting down plants in New Hampshire, Vermont, all over this country, moving to low wage countries, bringing their products.
We need trade policies which create jobs in America not just in China.
And by the way, that means together we are going to defeat this disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership.
We need a political movement which tells Wall Street that when a bank is too big to fail, it is too big to exist.
I understand the power of Wall Street. I really do. I’ve stood up to them for a very long time.
But whether they like or not, we will reinstate Glass-Steagall and we will create a financial system whose job it is to make affordable loans to small and medium size businesses so we can create jobs in America, not a financial system as currently exists which is an island onto itself only concerned about their profits.
We are going to break up the major financial institutions on Wall Street.
When we talk about the economy, all of you know that throughout this country there are millions of Americans who are working for wages which are just too damn low.
In my view, the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage. We have got to raise the minimum wage to a living wage $15 an hour over the next few years.
And I hope that every man in this room will stand with the women and fight for pay equity for women workers.
There is no rational economic reason why women are earning 78 cents on the dollar compared to men, and when we have pay equity for women workers when we raise the minimum wage to a living wage, millions of mothers will then be able to raise their kids with security and dignity and they deserve that.
I know here in New Hampshire you see a lot of politicians tropping through your state. You’re suddenly a very popular destination.
And you have heard many Republicans talk about family values. You ever hear that? Oh, they just love families.
But you know and I know what they mean by family values.
What they mean is that the women of America should not have the right to control their own bodies. I disagree.
And what they mean by values is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to marry; I disagree.
I’ve got four kids, seven beautiful grandchildren and Jane and I have been married for 27 years.
We believe in family values. But our values are just a little bit different than Republican family values.
We believe that the United States has got to end the international embarassment of being the only major country on Earth – only one – that does not guarantee paid family and medical leave.
It is not a family value to tell a working class woman who has a baby that she has to be separated from that baby in a week or two weeks after birth because she has to run back to a job in order to earn income to sustain that family. That’s not a family value. That is the opposite of what a family value is.
And that is why I will fight for 12 weeks paid family and medical leave.
Brothers and sisters, here’s the truth about unemployment. Real unemployment is not 5.1%. That’s official unemployment.
Counting those people who have given up looking for work and are working part-time, real unemployment is over 10%.
And let me tell you something of huge consequence which very few people talk about and that is the tragedy of youth unemployment.
Here are the facts. Real youth unemployment. If you’re a white kid, high school graduate 33%; Hispanic 36%; African-American 51%.
We need a major jobs program to put our people back to work. And the fastest way to do it is to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our rails, our airports, our water systems.
And let me tell you something else that I feel passionately about. The United States of America today has more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
It makes a lot more sense to me for us to be investing in jobs and education for our young people than jails and incarceration.
I want us to end this distinction of having more people in jail and I want to replace it with the distinction of us having the best educated population on Earth.
And when we talk about politics, let me simply say this and I think most of you know it is that today the campaign finance system that we operate under is corrupt and it is undermining American democracy.
Corrupt is the right word.
When the Koch brothers alone can spend $900 million on this election cycle – more money than either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party – brothers and sisters, we’re not talking about democracy; we are talking about oligarchy, and together we are going to overturn Citizens United.
You know, I am likely the most progressive member of the United States Senate and I’m proud of that. And it goes without saying that I have very large areas of disagreement with my Republican colleagues. That’s obvious.
But there is one area that goes beyond a disagreement and it goes to an embarassment.
And some of you may have seen it just the other evening at the Republican debate.
The scientific community is virtually unanimous – no longer a debate – climate change is real. It is caused by human activity. It is already causing devastating problems in America and around the world.
And our Republican colleagues are prepared to reject science. And that is a dangerous situation for the most powerful country on Earth.
And I will tell you something else. It’s not that these guys are dumb; it’s that they get their money from the fossil fuel industry and they are more worried about their campaign donations than their kids and their grandchildren. That is a shame.
We must lead the world in transforming our energy system working with China, Russia, and India, and we can do it. We can move to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. And for the sake of our kids, that is exactly what we have to do.
And when we talk about American needs, there is something beyond comprehension for me. I don’t understand it.
I don’t understand how in an incredibly competitive global economy hundreds of thousands of bright qualified young people are unable to get into college only for one reason and that is their families lack the money. That is crazy. That is counter-productive to the future of America.
And that is why I have introduced legislation and will fight for as President to make every public college and university in this country tuition free.
It is not a radical idea. It is common economic sense to say that when young people or people of any age need more education they should be able to get that education regardless of the income of their family.
And that legislation also deals with the travesty that millions of Americans are experiencing today in outrageously high student debt and outrageously high interest rates.
Now, to lower interest rates on student debt and to provide free tuition at public colleges and universities that is in fact – I admit it – it’s an expensive proposition and I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it.
We’re going to pay for it based on a tax on Wall Street speculation.
The middle class of this country bailed out Wall Street. Now it’s time for Wall Street to help the middle class of this country.
And when we talk about bringing our country together, it’s not just the need for major criminal justice reform. I do not want to see kids’ lives destroyed because of mandatory minimum sentencing.
I think it’s time we took a hard look at the so-called war on drugs and the lives that have been lost as a result of that.
I think it’s high time that we make sure that when a police officer breaks the law like any other public official that officer will be held accountable.
And when we talk about creating the kind of nation we want to become, we cannot forget that today there are 11 million people in this country who are undocumented.
In my view, we need comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
You are looking at a Senator and a former Congressman who did not believe what George W. Bush, what Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld were saying about Iraq and who voted against the war in Iraq.
I heard the evidence. I heard what they had to say. I didn’t believe it.
And if you go to YouTube or go to my website or go somewhere and read what I said back then and I’m not happy – you know, doesn’t make me happy to say this – but much of what I feared would happen in terms of the destabilization of that region did happen.
So we have got to understand and I speak to you as the former chairman of the Veterans Committee, someone who has and will continue to make sure that our veterans get the health care and the benefit they need, but also someone who has spoken to hundreds of veterans and learned something about the cost – the terrible cost of war – not just the 6,700 brave men and women who died in Iraq and Afghanistan, not just those many who came home without legs and arms and eyesight but about the 500,000 men and women who came home with post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.
And the tens of thousands of families that have been disrupted in a way that they may never recover from and the children who have been hurt and the divorces and the suicides.
Anybody who does not understand the cost of war should not be in the United States Congress.
That is why it astonishes me and it really hurts to hear many of my Republican colleagues talk so easily and loosely about getting into another war in Iran.
The President and Secretary Kerry have worked long and hard for one simple goal and that is to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon and that is something we must do.
But what they have put together is a process and an agreement which allows us to accomplish that goal without going to war and I hope we all support that.
Let me conclude…by begging you to do one thing and that is think big not small.
Do not get into the argument of whether we should cut education by 2% or 4%. Do not get into the debate about whether climate change is real or it’s not real.
What I want you to think about what we in the wealthiest country in the history of the world can accomplish.
Please do not tell me that in the United States of America we cannot join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people as a right!
Which is why I support a Medicare for all single-payer system.
Do not tell me that when we have a massive level of income and wealth inequality that the United States should continue to have the highest rate of childhood poverty of many other country on Earth. Please don’t tell me that.
Please don’t tell me that when mom and dad go to work that they should not be able to find high quality and affordable child care.
And please don’t tell me that the United States cannot lead the world in transforming our energy system and combatting climate change. We can do that.
Brothers and sisters, we can create a nation in which every man, woman, and child regardless of the color of their skin, regardless of the country they came from, regardless of whether they are gay or straight, man or woman, we can create a nation which fulfills the birthright of all Americans and that is a society of dignity, of security, and ending all forms of discrimination.
Thank you all very much.
…I think most Americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented crises.
The middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing. Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages. And yet, almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top 1%.
As a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system is corrupt and is undermining American democracy.
Millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to fund Super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the interests of working people.
Today, the scientific community is virtually unanimous – climate change is real, it is caused by human activity. And we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable planet for our children and our grandchildren.
Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
African-American youth unemployment is 51%. Hispanic youth unemployment is 36%.
It seems to me that instead of building more jails and providing more incarceration maybe – just maybe – we should be putting money into education and jobs for our kids.
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant democracy we can and should have.
Thank you.
Well, we’re going to win because first we’re going to explain what democratic socialism is.
And what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the top one-tenth of 1% [0.1%] in this country own almost 90% – own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
That it is wrong today in a rigged economy that 57% of all new income is going to the top 1%.
That when you look around the world, you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right, except the United States.
You see every other major country saying to moms that when you have a baby we’re not going to separate you from your newborn baby because we are going to have medical and family paid leave like every other country on Earth.
Those are some of the principles that I believe in and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway and learn from what they’ve accomplished for their working people.
Well, first of all, let’s look at the facts. The facts that are very simple.
Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout and that is what happened last November. 63% of the American people didn’t vote…80% of the young people didn’t vote.
We are bringing out huge turnouts and creating excitement all over this country. Democrats at the White House on down will win when there is excitement and a large voter turnout and that is what this campaign is doing.
Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and so many have so little, by which Wall Street’s greed and recklessness wrecked this economy? No, I don’t. I believe in a society where all people do well, not just a handful of billionaires.
Let’s begin…by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a D- voting record from the NRA.
Let’s also understand that back in 1988 when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont – a state which has virtually no gun control – that I supported a ban on assault weapons.
And over the years, I have strongly supported instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole, and I think we’ve got to move aggressively on the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchases.
Also I believe and I’ve fought for to understand that there are thousands of people in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal but can’t get the health care that they need – the mental health care – because they don’t have insurance or they’re too poor.
I believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately.
Of course not. This was a large and complicated bill. There were provisions in it that I think made sense.
For example, do I think that a gun shop in the state of Vermont that sells legally a gun to somebody and that somebody goes out and does something crazy that that gun shop owner should be held responsible? I don’t.
On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and abetting that, of course we should take action.
Well, let’s understand that when we talk about Syria, you’re talking about a quagmire in a quagmire.
You’re talking about groups of people trying to overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS.
You’re talking about people fighting ISIS using their guns to overthrow Assad and vice versa.
I’m the former chairman…of the Senate Veterans Committee. And in that capacity, I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war.
And I will do everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in Iraq – the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country.
We should be putting together a coalition of Arab countries who should be leading the effort. We should be supportive.
But I do not support American ground troops in Syria.
Hillary Clinton:
Nobody does.
Let me just respond to something the Secretary said.
First of all, she is talking about – as I understand it – a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a very dangerous situation. Could lead to real problems.
Second of all, I heard the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why we would overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the war.
I would urge people to go to BernieSanders.com, hear what I said in 2002.
And I say without any joy in my heart that much of what I thought would happen about the destabilization in fact did happen.
So I think the President is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS without getting us on the ground there. And that’s the direction I believe we should have…
Well, obviously, I voted when President Clinton said “Let’s stop ethnic cleansing in Kosovo”, I voted for that.
I voted to make sure that Osama bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan.
When our country is threatened or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country. I do not support the United States getting involved in unilateral action. Work with our allies.
Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend, Jim Webb, for his service to this country in so many ways.
Jim and I – under Jim’s leadership as he indicated – passed the most significant veterans education bill in recent history. We followed suit with a few years later passing under my leadership the most significant veterans health care legislation in the modern history of this country.
When I was a young man, I’m not a young man today. When I was a young man, I strongly opposed the war in Vietnam, not the brave men like Jim who fought in that war but the policy which got us involved in that war. That was my view then.
I am not a pacifist. I supported the war in Afghanistan. I supported President Clinton’s effort to deal with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. I supported airstrikes in Syria and what the President is trying to do.
Yes, I happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort, that we’ve got to exercise diplomacy. But yes, I am prepared to take this country into war – [overlapping audio]
Let me say something that may not be great politics but I think the Secretary is right and that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails.
Hillary Clinton:
Thank you. Me too. Me too.
Bernie Sanders:
…And let me say something about the media as well. I go around the country, talk to a whole lot of people. The middle class of this country is collapsing. We have 27 million people living in poverty. We have massive wealth and income inequality. Our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs.
The American people want to know whether we’re going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of Citizens United.
Enough of the emails. Let’s talk about the real issues facing America.
Hillary Clinton:
Thank you, Bernie. Thank you.
Black lives matter.
And the reason those words matter is the African-American community knows that on any given day that some innocent person like Sandra Bland can get into a car and then three days later she’s going to end up dead in jail.
Or their kids are going to get shot.
We need to combat institutional racism from top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice system in which we have more people in jail than China.
And I intend to tackle that issue to make sure that our people have education and jobs rather than jail cells.
Well, first of all, let’s remember where we were when Bush left office. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
And I know my Republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue.
But the world’s financial markets were on the verge – system – was the verge of collapse.
That’s where we were. Are we better off today than we were then? Absolutely.
But the truth is that for the last 40 years, the great middle class in this country has been disappearing.
And in my view, what we need to do is to create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour, pay equity for women workers, end our disastrous trade policies which have cost us millions of jobs and make every public college and university in this country tuition free.
Well, I remember that meeting very well. I remember like it was yesterday.
Hank Paulson, Bernanke came in and they said “Guys, the economy is going to collapse because Wall Street is going under. It’s going to take the economy with them.”
And you know what I said to Hank Paulson? I said, “Hank, your guys – you come from Goldman Sachs – your millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem. How about your millionaire and billionaire friends pay for the bailout, not working families in this country?”
So to answer your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse, but it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street.
And by the way, I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college – public colleges and universities – free with the Wall Street speculation tax.
Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today – taxes in the future than they’re paying today.
But in terms of education, this is what I think. This is the year 2015. A college degree today…is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago.
And what we said 50 years ago and 100 years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education regardless of the income of their family.
I think we have to say that is true for everybody going to college.
I think we don’t need a complicated system, which the Secretary is talking about – income goes up, income’s down, if you’re poor you have to work and so forth and so on.
I pay for my program by the way through a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will not only make public colleges and universities tuition free, it will substantially lower interest rates on college debt – a major crisis in this country.
Republicans in the Congress and some Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled veterans for the so-called chained CPI.
I founded a caucus called the Defending Social Security Caucus.
My view is that when you have millions of seniors in this country trying to get by – and I don’t know how they do it – on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year, you don’t cut Social Security; you expand it.
And the way you expand it is by lifting the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying into the same amount into the system as somebody making $118,000.
If you do that, Social Security is solvent until 2061 and you can expand benefits.
I didn’t leave anybody at the altar. I voted against that piece of legislation because it had guest worker provisions in it, which the Southern Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery.
Guest workers are coming in; they’re working under terrible conditions. But if they stand up for their rights they’re thrown out of the country.
I was not the only progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason. Tom Harkin, a very good friend of Hillary Clinton’s and mine, one of the leading labor advocates also voted against that. [overlapping audio]
…The point being that progressives did vote against that for that reason.
My view right now and always has been is that when you have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive immigration reform; we need a path towards citizenship. We need to take people out of the shadows.
Well, I was chairman [of the Senate Veterans Committee] for two years. And when I was chairman, we did take action.
What we did is pass a $15 billion piece of legislation which brought in many, many new doctors and nurses into the VA so that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it and not be on long waiting lines.
And the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran living more than 40 miles away from a VA facility, that veteran could get health care from a community health center or the private sector.
As a result of that legislation, we went further than at any time in recent history in improving health care to the men and women of this country who put their lives on the line to defend us.
Well, I would shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in this country ends up in a file at the NSA. That is unacceptable to me.
But it’s not just government surveillance. I think the government is involved in our emails, is involved in our websites. Corporate America is doing it as well.
If we are a free country, we have the right to be free.
Yes, we have to defend ourselves against terrorism. But there are ways to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights.
I think there is profound frustration all over this country with establishment politics.
I am the only candidate running for President who is not a billionaire, who has raised substantial sums of money, and I do not have a super PAC.
I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires.
And in fact tonight, in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties, 100,000 people in this country watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country.
Well, I will tell you this. I believe in – Pope Francis made this point – this is a moral issue.
The scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely boldly.
I am proud that along with Sen. Barbara Boxer a few years ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called for a tax on carbon.
And let me also tell you that nothing is going to happen unless we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform because the fossil fuel industry is funding the Republican Party, which denies the reality of climate change and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively.
This is a moral issue. We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India, Russia; the future of the planet is at stake.
Here’s the point: Every other major country on Earth, every one, including some small countries say that when a mother has a baby, she should stay home with that baby.
We are the only major country that is an international embarrassment that we do not provide paid family and medical leave.
Second of all, the Secretary is right. Republicans tell us we can’t do anything except give tax breaks to billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. That’s not what the American people want.
I suspect I would vote yes [on legalizing medical marijuana].
And I would vote yes because I am seeing in this country too many lives being destroyed for non-violent offenses.
We have a criminal justice system that lets CEOs on Wall Street walk away and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana.
I think we have to think through this war on drugs, which has done an enormous amount of damage.
We need to rethink our criminal justice system and we’ve got a lot of work in that area.
The Republican Party, since I’ve been in the Senate and since President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of being total obstructionists.
Every effort that he has made that some of us have made, they have said “No, no, no”.
Now, in my view, the only way we can take on the right wing Republicans who, by the way, I hope will not continue to control the Senate and the House when one of us is elected President – but the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together.
If we want free tuition at public colleges and universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it and give the Republicans an offer they can’t refuse.
If we want to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the Republicans in the eye and say “We know what’s going on. You vote against us, you are out of your job.”
This is a great country but we have many, many serious problems.
We should not be the country that has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country.
We should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship.
And we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and parental leave – family and parental leave – for all of our families.
Now, at the end of the day, here is the truth that very few candidates will say is that nobody up here, certainly no Republican, can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life.
Jim Webb is right. Money is pouring into this campaign through super PACs. We are doing it the old fashioned way – 650,000 individual contributions.
And if people want to help us out, BernieSanders.com. We are averaging $30 apiece. We would appreciate your help.

…Let me begin by thanking all of you not only for what you do for women’s rights but for what you’re doing to expand and improve our democracy.
One of the reasons – and let me be very blunt about this – one of the reasons that I’m running for president of the United States is that I worry very much that both economically and politically our country is sliding into oligarchy.
Now, I know this is not an issue that you’re going to see discussed much on TV but it is the reality of what’s happening in America.
We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. But as we speak here and meet here this morning, millions and millions of families are struggling to feed their kids.
We have the highest rate shamefully of poverty of any major country on Earth and 40% of African-American kids are living in poverty – all at the same time as 58% of all new income is going to the top 1% and the top 0.1% owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
And as a nation we are going to have to ask ourselves whether it is morally acceptable, whether it is economically sustainable that so few have so much while so many have so little.
In my view, that has got to change and we need an economy that works for working families.
But it is not just economics. It is politics.
As a result of the disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, millionaires and billionaires are pouring unlimited sums of money into the political process through Super PACs and independent expenditures.
In the last election last November, 63% of the American people didn’t vote, 80% of young people didn’t vote, and today millionaires and billionaires are buying the election. Is that what democracy in this country is supposed to be about? I think not.
Now, the truth is as all of you know, Republicans win when voter turnout is low, when millions of people turn their back on the political process, when they look to Washington and they say “I’m working longer hours for lower wages. What are you doing for me?”, when they say “I don’t have any health insurance. What are you doing for me?”, when they say “I can’t afford to send our little baby into decent quality child care. What are you doing for me?”, “Can’t afford to send my older kids to college. What are you doing for me?”, and when people give up on the political process and don’t vote in large numbers, when Republican governors suppress the vote, when the Koch brothers and other billionaires try to buy elections, Republican win and we lose.
So what do we do? What we do is make it clear that in this country we need a political revolution.

That establishment politics – the same-old, same-old – ain’t going to do it.
That establishment economics is not going to do it.
You want to win an election. I’ll tell you how to win an election for the White House on down: You rally millions of working class people who have given up on the political process. You rally young people who have given up on the political process. You bring people together who are prepared to say loudly and clearly “Enough is enough. Our government belongs to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.”
And if we do not do that and if this is a same-old, same-old type of election and if millions of working people and young people do not participate Republicans will win and we will lose.
So let me tell you I am extremely gratified in my campaign so far that we have rallied hundreds of thousands of people to come out to our meetings and our events, that we have 750,000 individuals who have made campaign contributions, not million dollar contributions to Super PACs but $30 apiece. More individual contributions than any campaign at this point in a campaign in American history.
We win when people come together, when we reject the division of men versus women, of straight versus gay, of black versus white, of people born in this country as opposed to people born in another country, that is what they want to do.
And we win elections when we stand together and we say “You know what? In the wealthiest country in the history of the world, the wealthiest people and the largest corporations are going to start paying their fair share of taxes.”
We win elections when we say to the working people in this country “We know you can’t make it on $8 or $9 an hour and that is why we’re going to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.”
And that is why we’re going to win the election when we say to women “There is no rational economic reason that women makes 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. We’re going to have pay equity.”
We win an election in which we say to working families “Yes, when you go to work, you are going to have quality child care and pre-K for your little ones.”
We win this election when we say to the unemployed “We’re going to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create millions of decent-paying jobs.”
We are going to win this election when we say to young people and all people that we wonder what world the Republicans are living in when they deny science and refuse to go forward in helping us combat climate change.
We win this election when we make it clear that women have fought too long and too hard to lose control over their own bodies.
We win this election when we stand up boldly and say “No, you’re not going to cut or defund Planned Parenthood. You’re going to put more money into Planned Parenthood.”
So sisters and brothers, we are at an historical moment in American history.

The crises that we face today in many ways are worse than at any time since the Great Depression of the 1930s.
And in my view, what this election is about is not just electing a President.
Far, far more significantly, it is about transforming the United States of America.
It is about understanding that there is something very, very wrong where the United States of America is the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee family and medical leave. How does that happen?
The only major country on Earth that does not guarantee paid sick time or paid vacation time. How does that happen?
The only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee health care to every man, woman, and child as a right.
So what this campaign is truly about is to bringing people together by the tens of millions and that’s tough. That’s tough stuff to do. But if we do that, we’re not just going to win this election, we are going to win it by a landslide.
Because what happens is how many people in your communities believe as the Republicans do that we should cut Social Security, cut Medicare, cut Medicaid, cut federal aid to education, and then give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the top 0.2%? Nobody believes that.
But Republicans can win elections because so many people have given up on the political process.
And what this campaign is about is revitalizing American democracy by bringing people together to stand up and fight for the promise of what this great country can be.
We can be a nation in which the middle class rose, not shrinks. We can be a nation in which we do not have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more economic and wealth disparity. We can do that.
But in order to do that, we’re going to have to do something that is pretty hard. Pretty, pretty, pretty hard – to quote Larry David. And this is what we have to do.
In the last many decades as everybody in this room knows because you have been part of the process, we have made significant progress in becoming a less discriminatory society and we should be proud of that.
We should be proud that in 2008 the American people decided to vote for a candidate based on his program and his ideas and his character, not the color of his skin.
We should be proud that all over this country as a result of your efforts and those that came before you, women have made extraordinary progress in breaking down discriminatory barriers. And by the way, we are not going back. We are going to go forward.
And if we were here 10 years and somebody jumped up and said, “You know, I think that gay marriage would be made legal in every state of this country”, somebody else would have asked them what they were smoking, which raises another issue.
But we have. But we have made progress. We’ve made progress in women’s rights, in gay rights, in civil rights. We still have a long way to go in all of those areas but we should be proud of what we have accomplished.
But here is where we have not made progress. We have not made progress in the economic struggle. We have lost ground.
Today, men and women in many cases are working longer hours for lower wages. That’s a fact. And almost all of the new wealth and income is going to people on top.
So the essential question in terms of the economic struggle is are we prepared to organize and to take on the billionaire class which today has so much economic and political power? That is the question.
And if we are not successful in doing that, my prediction to you is that the rich will continue to get richer, while most everybody else gets poorer. My prediction to you is that the Republicans who do not believe Citizens United went far enough – want to get rid of all campaign finance regulations will simply be able through the Koch brothers and others to give checks of hundreds of millions of dollars to the candidates of their choice. In other words, having candidates become employees of their corporate interests.
That’s the future if we do not educate and if we do not organize.
But I have confidence that we can do both. I have confidence that if we come forward with a progressive strong agenda that is prepared to stand up to corporate America, is prepared to stand up to the Koch brothers and the billionaire class, that is prepared to outline an agenda which will improve the lives of tens of millions of our people, we can not only win the White House, we gain the Senate and the House, gain governors’ chairs all over America.
Not only can we do that but much more importantly, we can transform this country and make it the country that we all know that it can become.
Thank you all very much.

Thank you, Iowa!
Now, we just heard from President Obama that reminded me of something that I think we should think about and that is to reach out to our Republican friends and colleagues who are suffering from a very, very serious illness. They suffer from amnesia. They forgot what the world looked like seven years ago. They forgot that 800,000 people a month were losing their jobs. They forgot that the world’s financial system was on the verge of collapse. And they just forgot that we ran up the largest deficit in the history of the United States in the last year of George Bush.
So we wish our Republican friends well on the road to recovery and we tell them what every American knows. Yeah, we’ve got problems today but everybody knows thanks to the president and the vice president, we have made real progress in improving our economy. And we have done that despite unprecedented obstructionism from right-wing Republicans.
Now, let me begin by thanking all of you for being here today…And I want to thank you for your patriotism, for your love of our country, and for doing today what too few Americans are doing. You are not standing on the sidelines complaining. You are not turning your backs on the political process. You are standing up and fighting back and that is what this campaign is about and it is what the political revolution is about.
When you see the middle class of this country disappearing and when you see people you know working two or three jobs trying to cobble together some income and some health care, you don’t just shrug your shoulders and say “That’s the way it is.” You fight to raise the minimum wage to a living wage. $15 an hour.
And we fight for pay equity for women workers.
When millions of Americans today do not have jobs, you fight for a massive federal jobs program to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and to put millions of our people back to work.
You fight for an economy that works for all Americans and not just the wealthiest people in this country.

When you see – when you see that the United States has more income and wealth inequality than any other major country on Earth and when you see almost all of the new income being generated today is going to the top 1%, you know and the American people know that that is not moral, not sustainable, and you demand that the wealthiest people in this country and the largest corporations start paying their fair share of taxes.
When you see that here in the United States we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth – disproportionately black and Latino – you know that what we have got to do is invest in jobs and education, not more jails and incarceration.
When you saw the United States Supreme Court in one of the worst decisions in the history of our country pass the Citizens United case, which allows the wealthiest people in this country to essentially buy elections and buy candidates, you demanded a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United.
And I promise you that no nominee of mine to the Supreme Court will be voting to support Citizens United. They will be voting to overturn Citizens United.
Now, while many in the Republican Party continue to deny the reality of climate change, you have demanded that we lead the international effort in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And you understand the moral imperative – moral imperative – that we leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable for our children and our grandchildren.
You are not on the sidelines of these struggles. You are in the middle of this fight and that is what our campaign is all about.
Six months ago, when I began my campaign for president of the United States of America and when we announced that we were going to take on the political and economic establishment of this country, very few people knew who I was. That’s the fact. I may have a big ego but that’s the fact.
We were at about 3% in the polls. We had no money. We had no political organization.
Well, in the last six months, things have changed.

Yes, they have.
Hundreds of thousands of volunteers in every state in this country are working hard including 7,000 right here in Iowa.
We have brought out to our rallies and our town meetings over 300,000 Americans. And we’ve drawn some of the largest turnouts of any campaign.
And today, I can tell you – and I’m very proud of this – that we have raised more individual contributions than any candidate in the history of our country at this point in a campaign. And the average contribution is $30 apiece.
Now, the pundits – the great political experts – they’ve said that in this day and age you cannot win a campaign unless you have a Super PAC, unless you go to the millionaires and the billionaires and you beg for money.
Well, I’m the only Democratic candidate for president who does not have a Super PAC and we are going to prove the experts wrong because we are going to win this campaign.
And by the way, just to remember about eight years all of the political experts talked about how another Democratic candidate for president just couldn’t win. He was un-electable. You remember that guy? What’s his name? Oh, it’s President Obama.
Well, Iowa, I think we are going to prove the pundits wrong again. I believe we’re going to make history one more time.
Now, I know that my political life is not as well known as some other candidates. So let me just take a brief moment in the remaining time that I have to talk to you about some of the difficult choices, decisions that I have had to make. Some of the forks in the road that I have encountered in my career as mayor of Burlington, Vermont, as a U.S. Congressman, and as a United States Senator.

Well, I was elected mayor of the largest city in my state by 10 votes. I think it’s fair to say that it was a shock to the establishment. Nobody thought we could win that election, and I was opposed by the entire political establishment. That’s the way it was.
I faced a fork in the road. Either capitulate to the special interests in my city and the political establishment or we stand up and fight back and that is what we did.
Two years later in the next election, we doubled the voter turnout. We elected progressive candidates and we made profound changes to make Burlington one of the most livable cities in the United States of America.
And I learned a lesson then, and the lesson is if you stand with the people, if you prepare to take on big money interests, you know what? Ordinary people will get involved in the political process. They will come out and vote.
And that’s a lesson we have got to learn today. Republicans win when voter turnout is low; we win when people come out and voter turnout is high.
Now after I came to Congress – elected in 1990 – corporate America, Wall Street, the administration and virtually all of the corporate media, they said “You got to vote for this NAFTA trade agreement. It’s wonderful. It’s great.”
I didn’t believe their arguments. I voted against NAFTA. I voted against CAFTA. I voted against PNTR with China.
And history has proven those of us who opposed those agreements were right because in the last 14 years this country has lost 60,000 factories and millions of decent paying jobs.
And let me be clear about the current trade deal that we are debating in Congress – the Trans-Pacific Partnership. That agreement is not now nor has it ever been the gold standard of trade agreements. I did not support it yesterday. I do not support it today. And I will not support it tomorrow.

In 1996, I faced another fork in the road – a very, very difficult political situation. It was called the Defense of Marriage Act – DOMA – brought forth by a Republican-led Congress and its purpose was clear – to discriminate against gays and lesbians into the law.
And let us all remember that gay and lesbian rights were not popular then as they are today. It was a tough vote. And I’m sorry to have to tell you that that bill won by an overwhelming majority in the House of 342 to 57. That was not a political easy vote.
Now today, some are trying to rewrite history by saying they voted for one anti-gay law to stop something worse. That’s not the case. There was a small minority in the House opposed to discriminating against our gay brothers and sisters and I am proud that I was one of those members.
Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already causing devastating damage in America and all over the world.
It is a very sad moment in American history when almost all Republicans running for president reject science and the need for bold action to combat climate change.
Sadly, these Republicans prefer to take Super PAC contributions from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry rather than to protect the planet for our kids and our grandchildren.
And if you agree with me about the urgent need to address climate change, then you know immediately what to do about the Keystone Pipeline. This was not a complicated issue.
Should we support the construction of a pipeline across America, accelerating the extraction and transportation of some of the dirtiest fossil fuel in the world? To me, that was a no-brainer, and that’s why I have opposed the Keystone Pipeline from day one.

Let me now take you back to a very eventful year and a decision in the modern history of our country. The year is 2002. The issue is whether Congress should vote to invade Iraq.
Public opinion and most of the media were for the war. And it turns out that big majorities in Congress were for the war as well. Overwhelming support in the House and the Senate for the war.
I listened carefully to what Bush and Cheney and Rumsfeld had to say and I said, “No, they’re not telling the truth.” And I was right.
Brothers and sisters, it gives me no joy to tell you that much of what I predicted about Iraq turned out to be right. Doesn’t give me any joy at all. But that was a tough vote. I came to that fork in the road and I took the right road even though it was not popular at that time.
Throughout my career in Congress, I have voted time and time again to rein in Wall Street. If a bank is too big to fail, it’s too big to exist. We need to re-establish and bring back Glass-Steagall legislation. And we need to break up these huge banks.
Well, let me conclude…by just saying this: We face as a nation enormously difficult and complex problems. That’s the truth.
But I believe now and I’ve always believed from the bottom of my heart that yes, these guys got the money; they have the power.
But when people stand together – black and white, Hispanic, gay and straight, young and old, men and women – when we stand together, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish.
And I pledge to you that everyday I will fight for the public interest, not the corporate interest. I will not abandon any segment of American society, whether you’re gay or black or Latino, poor working class, just because it is politically expedient at a given time.
So let us go forward together and let us tell the Republicans that their reactionary agenda may work for the billionaires but not for the ordinary Americans and we are going to defeat them.
Thank you all very much.

…Today I want to spend a few minutes discussing a major crisis in this country that must be addressed.
Tragically in the United States of America, we now have 2.2 million people in jail.
That is more people incarcerated than any other country on Earth, including China which is a communist, authoritarian country four times our size. We have more people in jail than does China.
Further, at a time of large deficits and a very large national debt, we are spending about $80 billion a year in federal, state, and local taxpayer money to lock people up. $80 billion a year to incarcerate people.
Mr. President, our criminal justice system is broken and we need major reforms in that system.
I think there is no debate in this country that violent and dangerous people must be locked up and they must be kept in jail and away from society. I think nobody argues that.
On the other hand, I would hope that there is also no debate that non-violent people – people who have been convicted of relatively minor crimes should not have their lives destroyed while they do time in prison, create an arrest record which will stay with them for their entire lives.
The important point here is it’s not just the year, the two years that somebody is in prison. This record will stay with them for their entire lives and do enormous damage to their lives.
…In 2014, there were 620,000 marijuana possession arrests. That is one arrest every minute.
According to a report by the ACLU, there were more than 8 million marijuana arrests in the United States from 2001 to 2010. 8 million marijuana arrests and almost 9 in 10 were for possession.
Arrests for marijuana possession rose last year nationwide even as Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Alaska, and the District of Columbia became the first states in the nation to legalize personal use of marijuana.
And let’s be clear that there is a racial component to this situation.
Although about the same proportion of blacks and whites use marijuana, a black person is almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than a white person.
In other words, as we try to understand why our prison population today is disproportionately black and Latino, one of the reasons is that because of over-policed black neighborhoods, African-Americans are much more likely to be arrested for smoking or using marijuana than will whites.
And here’s the simple truth. That upper-middle class white kid in Scarsdale, New York has a much, much lower chance of being arrested for using marijuana than a low-income black kid in Chicago or Baltimore. Those are just the facts.
…Too many Americans in this country have seen their lives destroyed because they have criminal records as a result of marijuana use. That is wrong. That has got to change.
Let’s be clear. A criminal record could mean not only jail time but much, much more.
If a person has a criminal record, it will be much harder for that person later in life to get a job. Not so easy coming out of jail getting a job. But if you don’t get a job, there’s a strong likelihood that you’re going to get back into your same old environment and end up in jail again.

If somebody has a criminal record, it may be impossible for them to obtain certain types of public benefits and make it difficult in fact for them even to live in public housing.
A criminal record stays with a person for his or her entire life until the day he or she dies. A criminal record destroys lives.
…Right now, under the Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is listed as a Schedule I drug, meaning that it is considered to be a drug that is extremely dangerous.
In fact, under the act, marijuana is considered to be as dangerous as heroin.
Now, I know that there are conflicting opinions about the health impacts that marijuana may have. But nobody that I know seriously believes that marijuana is as dangerous as heroin. This is absurd. Nobody believes that.
In my view, the time is long overdue for us to take marijuana off of the federal government’s list of outlawed drugs.
In my view, at a time when Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Alaska, and the District of Columbia have already legalized the personal use of marijuana, every state in this country should have the right to regulate marijuana the same way that states and local laws now govern sales of alcohol and tobacco.
Among other things, that means that recognized businesses in states that have legalized marijuana should be fully able to use the banking system without fear of federal prosecution.
…In response to the initiatives that Colorado and other states have taken, the Obama administration has essentially allowed these states to go forward and do to what the people in those states have chosen to do. That’s a good step forward.
But it is not good enough because a new administration with a different point of view could simply go forward and prosecute those marijuana businesses and individuals in the states who use marijuana despite what the people in those states have decided to do legislatively.
What I’m saying today is not that the federal government should legalize marijuana throughout the country. This is a decision for the states, and I would hope that many of my colleagues especially those who express their support for states’ rights in our federalist system of government, those who often decry the power of the big, bad federal government in undermining local initiatives would support my very simple and straightforward legislation, which will be introduced next week.
All that legislation says is that if a state chooses to legalize marijuana, that state should be able to go forward without legal impediments from the federal government.
…Let me also talk about another issue of great importance in this country and that is that I believe the time is now for the United States to end capital punishment.
Now, I know that this is not necessarily a popular point of view but it is in my view the right point of view.
Right now, virtually every western industrialized country has chosen to end capital punishment.
I would rather have our country stand side by side with European democracies rather than with countries like China, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and others who maintain the death penalty.
…We are all shocked and disgusted by some of the horrific murders that we see in this country, including massacres in schools and on college campuses that seem to take place every week.
All of us are just tired and disgusted with what we are seeing.
But it seems to me that at a time of rampant violence and murder all over the world where people have been blown up and their heads are being cut off, it is important that the state itself, that the federal government here in America say loud and clearly that we will not be part of that process.
When people commit horrendous crimes and we see too many of them, we should lock them up and throw away the key.
I have no problem in saying that people who commit terrible murders should spend the rest of their lives in jail.
But the state itself in a democratic civilized society should itself not be involved in the murder…I know that there are strong differences of opinion on this issue. And in fact, I think I am in a minority position.
But I think that those of us who want to set an example, who want to say that we’ve got to end the murders and the violence that we’re seeing in our country and all over the world should in fact be on the side of those of us who believe that we must end capital punishment in this country…
…I think my message to you all today is a pretty simple one, and that is our country faces some enormous problems and these problems are not going to be solved if people turn away from political struggle, if people throw up their hands in despair and say “I don’t want to get involved. It’s all crap.”
You’re getting a great education here in Georgetown, and I hope very much that you will use what you have learned here to fight to create a better world and to follow in the traditions of so many people for so many years who have struggled to create a more democratic and just society.
Let me take you now back to the year 1937 and in his inaugural address in the midst of the Great Depression, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt looked out at the nation amidst this terrible depression and this is saw and this is what he talked about in his inaugural.
He saw tens of millions of people denied the basic necessities of life.
He saw millions of families trying to live on incomes so meager that the pall of family disaster hung over them every single day.
He saw millions of his fellow Americans denied education, recreation, and the opportunity to better their lot and the lot of their children. He saw millions lacking the means to buy the products they needed and by their poverty, by their lack of disposable income denying employment to many other millions because when you don’t have money to spend, you’re not creating jobs for other people.
He saw one-third of a nation ill-house, ill-clad, and ill-nourished.
And he acted against the ferocious opposition of the ruling class of his day – people he called the economic royalists.
Roosevelt implemented a series of programs that put millions of Americans back to work, took them out of dire poverty, and restored their faith in government.
He re-defined the relationship of the federal government to the people of our nation.
He combatted cynicism, fear, and despair.
He re-invigorated democracy. He transformed our country, and that is exactly what we have to do today.
And by the way, almost everything he proposed, almost every program, every idea he introduced was called socialist.
I thought I would mention that just in passing.
Social Security, which all of you know transformed life for senior citizens in this country, was defined by his opponents as socialist.
The concept of the minimum wage that workers had to be paid at least a certain amount of money for their labor was seen as a radical intrusion into the marketplace and was described as socialist.
Unemployment insurance – when you lose your job you have something to fall back upon.
Abolishing child labor – ending the fact that children of 8, 10, 12 years of age were working in factories or working in the fields.
The 40 hour work week, collective bargaining, the rights of workers to engage in negotiations with a union, strong banking regulations, deposit insurance, and job programs that put millions of people to work were all described in one way or another as socialist.
Yet, as you all know, all of these programs and many more have become the fabric of our nation and in fact the foundation of our middle class.
30 years later after Roosevelt’s speech in the 1960s, President Lyndon Johnson fought for Medicare and Medicaid to provide health care to millions of senior citizens and families with children, persons with disabilities and some of the most vulnerable people in this country.
Today, Medicare does not seem to be such a terribly radical idea to say that when somebody gets old they should have medical insurance. But when it was proposed, once again, we heard right wing forces describe these programs as socialistic and a threat to the American way of life.
That was then. Now is now.
Today in the year 2015, despite the Wall Street crash of 2008, which drove this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, the American people are clearly better off economically than they were in 1937.
But, here is a very hard truth that we must acknowledge, we must address, we must not sweep under the rug.
And that is despite a huge increase in technology – and I can remember back I was mayor of the city of Burlington, Vermont – anybody here from Vermont? Okay. And when I was mayor in the 1980s, a radical development took place. We got computers in city hall. Okay? 1980s.
Despite a huge increase in technology and worker productivity, meaning that almost every worker in America with that technology is producing a lot more than workers that came before, despite major growth in our GDP and a huge increase in the global economy, tens of millions of American families continue today to lack the basic necessities of life while millions more struggle everyday to provide a minimal standard of living for their families.
And I hope none of you will turn your back on that reality.
And the truth is – and again, this is a truth we must put on the table – yes, we are better off today economically than we were 7 years ago when Bush left office but the other truth that for the last 40 years – 40 years – under Republican leadership and Democratic leadership – the great middle class of our country has been in decline and faith in our political system is now extremely low.
New technology, increased worker productivity, people working longer hours for lower wages, faith in our political system now extremely low.
The very rich get richer. Almost everyone else gets poorer.
Super PACs funded by billionaires buy elections.
Koch brothers alone and a few of their friends will spend more money in this election cycle than either the Democratic or Republican parties.
Ordinary people – working people, young people – don’t vote.
We have an economic and political crisis in this country and the same-old, same-old politics and economics will not effectively address those crises.
If we are serious about transforming our country – and I hope all of you are serious about transforming our country – if we are serious about rebuilding the American middle class, if we are serious about re-invigorating American democracy, we need to develop a political movement which once again is prepared to take on and defeat a ruling class whose greed is destroying our nation.
Now, I know that terms like ruling class – probably not talked about too often here at Georgetown, not too often talked about on CBS or NBC. But that is the simple fact.
And in my view, the billionaire class must be told loudly and clearly that they cannot have it all, that our government belongs to all of us not just a handful of billionaires.
But this goes beyond politics. We need to create a culture – an entire culture – which as Pope Francis has reminded us cannot just be based on the worship of money. We must not accept a nation in which billionaires compete as to the size of their super yachts while children in America go hungry and veterans – men and women who have put their lives on the line to defend us – sleep out on the streets.
Today in America we are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. But few Americans know that because so much of the new income and wealth is going to the people on top.
In fact, over the last 30 years, there has been a massive re-distribution of wealth. Problem is it has gone in the wrong direction.
In the last 30 years, we have seen trillions of dollars flow from the hands of working families and the middle class to the top 0.1%. A handful of people – top 0.1% – who have seen a doubling of the percentage of the wealth that they own during that period. Doubling of the percentage of wealth they own.
Unbelievably and grotesquely, the top 0.1% today owns nearly as much wealth as the bottom 90%. 0.1% owns nearly as much wealth as the bottom 90%. That is not the kind of America that we should accept.
I can tell you that in my state of Vermont and all over this country it is absolutely not uncommon to see people working two jobs or three jobs to cobble together the income and the health care they and their families need.
In fact, Americans work longer hours than do the people of any other industrialized country.
But despite the fact that our people are working so hard. I go around the country and I see a lot of working and you can see the stress and exhaustion on their faces. They’re working crazy hours. Husbands hardly see wives. People don’t have the quality time for their kids because they’re working so hard just to bring in the income to survive.
And despite all of that, despite how people are working so hard, 58% of all new income generated today is going to the top 1%.
Today in America as the middle class continues to disappear, median family income is $4,100 less than it was in 1999. The median male worker made over $700 less than he did 42 years ago in inflation adjusted for dollars.
Do you know why people are angry? They are angry because they are working terribly hard and yet in real inflation adjusted for dollars they are earning less and they are looking all over and they say “What’s happening? Why is that?”
But it’s not just men. Last year, the median female worker earned more than $1,000 less than she did in 2007 and 58% of all new income goes to the top 1%.
Today in America, the wealthiest country in the history of the world, that’s what we are today, more than half of older workers have zero retirement savings. Think about that. You’re 50, 55 years of age and you’re thinking “All right. How am I going to retire? But because of my wages have gone down, I have zero in the bank for retirement.”
And at the same time all over America, you’ve got millions of seniors and people with disabilities trying to survive on $12,000 or $13,000 a year Social Security.
From Vermont to California, older workers are scared to death and they are saying how am I going to retire with dignity.
And I want all of you – you can get your calculators out – not now, when you leave here – do some arithmetic, and try to put yourself in the place of a senior citizen in my state of Vermont where it gets cold in the winter trying to survive on $13,000 a year. You tell me how you are going to pay for the food that you need, heat your home, and buy the medicine that you need. And you know what? You can’t do it.
Today in America, nearly 47 million people are living in poverty and over 20% of our children including 36% of African-American kids are living in poverty – the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any nation on Earth.
And what I want you to think about is why is it in the wealthiest country in the history of the world where we’re seeing the proliferation of millionaires and billionaires, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
Today in America, 29 million Americans have no health insurance and even more are under-insured with outrageously high co-payments and deductibles. In other words, people do have insurance but I talk to people everyday – they’ve got a $5,000 deductible, $8,000 deductible. They can’t go to the doctor when they need.
And then on top of that for a wide variety of reasons, our people pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
And doctors tell me all of the time “We prescribe a medicine for our patients. They can’t afford to fill that prescription.” One out of five Americans cannot afford to fill the prescriptions their doctors write. What insanity is that?
Today in America, youth unemployment and under-employment is over 35%. For African-American kids, it is over 50%.
Meanwhile, we have more people in jail than any other country. China, communist authoritarian country four times our size, we have more people in jail than China and countless lives are being destroyed as we spend $80 billion a year locking up our fellow Americans.
The bottom line is that today in America we not only have massive wealth and income inequality but a power structure built around that inequality, which protects those who have the money.
Today a handful of super wealthy campaign contributors have enormous influence over the political process and their lobbyists determine much of what goes on in Congress and any member of the United States House or Senate who is prepared to tell you the truth will tell you exactly that.
Now in 1944, in his state of the union speech, President Roosevelt outlined what he called a second bill of rights – you’re all familiar with our bill of rights. And what Roosevelt outlined was what he a second bill of rights. This is in my view one of the more important speeches ever made by a president. But unfortunately it has not gotten the attention that it deserves. So I’m going to give it some attention today.
In his remarkable speech, this is what Roosevelt stated and I quote: “We have come to a clear realization of the fact that true individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and independence. Necessitous men” – and we would add women – “are not free men and women.”
In other words, real freedom must include economic security. That was Roosevelt’s vision 70 years ago. It is my vision today. It is a vision that we have not yet achieved, and it is time that we did.
In that speech, Roosevelt described the economic rights – R-I-G-H-T-S – rights that he believed every American was entitled to. The right to a decent job and decent pay. The right to adequate food, clothing, and time off from work. The right for every business large and small to function in an atmosphere free from unfair competition and domination from monopolies. The right of all Americans to have a decent home and decent health care.
What Roosevelt was stating in 1944, what Martin Luther King, Jr. stated in similar terms 20 years later, and what I believe today is that true freedom does not occur without economic security. People are not free – they are not truly free – when they are unable to feed their family. They are not truly free when they are unable to retire with dignity. They are not truly free when they are unemployed, under-employed, or when they are exhausted by working 60, 70 hours a week.
People are not truly free when they don’t know how they’re going to get medical help when they or a family member are sick.
So let me take this opportunity to define for you simply and straightforwardly what democratic socialism means to me.
It means building on what Franklin Delano Roosevelt said when he fought for guaranteed economic rights for all Americans, and it builds on what Martin Luther King, Jr. said in 1968 when he stated and I quote, “This country has socialism for the rich and rugged individualism for the poor.”
My view of Democratic socialism builds on the success of many other countries around the world who have done a far better job than we have in protecting the needs of their working families, their elderly citizens, their children, their sick, and their poor.
Democratic socialism means that we must reform a political system which is corrupt, that we must create an economy that works for all not just the very wealthy.
Democratic socialism to my mind speaks through a system which for example during the 1980s – I want you to hear this – allowed Wall Street to spend $5 billion over a 10-year period in lobbying and campaign contributions in order to get de-regulated. They wanted the government off of their backs. They wanted to do whatever they wanted to do. Spent $5 billion over a 10 year period on lobbying and campaign contributions.
Then 10 years later, after their greed and recklessness and illegal behavior led to their collapse, what our system enabled them to do is to get bailed out by the United States government which through Congress and the Fed provided trillions of dollars in aid to Wall Street.
In other words, Wall Street used their wealth and power to get Congress to do their bidding for de-regulation. And then when Wall Street collapsed, they used their wealth and power to get bailed out. Quite a system.
And then to add insult to injury, we were told that not only were the banks too big to fail, we were told that the bankers were too big to jail. And this is the system.
Young people who get caught possessing marijuana, they get police records. And many, many hundreds of thousands of them have received police records which have impacted their lives in very serious ways.
On the other hand, Wall Street CEOs who help destroy the economy, they don’t get police records. They get raises in their salaries. And this is what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. meant when he talked about socialism for the rich and rugged individualism for everyone else.
In my view, it is time we have democratic socialism for working families, not just for Wall Street, billionaires, and large corporations.
It means that we should not be providing welfare for corporations.
It means that we should not be providing huge tax breaks for the wealthiest people in this country or trade policies which boost corporate while they result in workers losing their jobs.
It means that we create a government which works for all of the American people, not just powerful special interests.
It means that economic rights must be an essential part of what America stands for.
Among many other things, it means that health care should be a right of all people, not a privilege.
Now, I know that there are some people out there who think that this is just an incredibly radical idea. Imagine in the United States of America all of us having health care as a right.
But I hope all of you know this is not a radical idea; it is a conservative idea.
It is an idea and practice that exists in every other major country on Earth. You know, not just in Scandinavia or in Denmark or Sweden or Finland or Norway. It exists in Canada. I live 50 miles away from Canada. It’s not a radical idea. It exists in France, Germany, Taiwan. All over the world countries have made the determination that all of their people are entitled to health care, and I believe the time is long overdue for the United States to join the rest of the world.
A Medicare for all single payer program which I support would not only guarantee health care for all people, not only save middle class families and our entire nation significant sums of money because all of you should know that our health care system is by far the most expensive per capita of any system on Earth.
But a Medicare for all single payer program would radically improve the lives of all Americans and bring about significant improvements in our economy.
Think about it. People who get sick will not have to worry about paying a deductible or making a co-payment. Radical idea – when they’re sick they can actually go to the doctor and not end up in the emergency room at a much greater expense for the system.
Think about it. Business owners will not have to spend enormous amounts of time worrying about how they’re going to provide health care for their employees. Think about it, and we don’t talk about this very much, you got millions of workers in this country who are staying in jobs which they do not want to stay in but they’re there because they have a decent health care program for themselves and their families.
Think what it means when young people and anybody else can say “You know what? This is the job that I love. This is what I want to do and I’m going to go out and start this business or do this work, and I don’t have to worry about health care because all of us in America have health care.”
And by the way, when a Medicare for all system will bring about is ending the absurdity of the American people paying by far the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
Now, when I talk about democratic socialism, what that means to me is that in the year 2015, a college degree today is equivalent to what a high school degree was 50 years ago.
And what that means is that public education must today allow every person in this country who has the ability, the qualifications, and the desire, the right to go to a public university tuition-free.
Is this a radical socialistic idea? I don’t think so. It exists in many countries all over the world. And you know what? It used to exist in the United States of America. We had great universities like the University of California, the City University of New York virtually tuition free.
Democratic socialism means that our government does everything it can to create a full employment economy. It makes far more sense to me to put millions of people back to work rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure than to have a real unemployment rate of almost 10%.
It is far smarter to invest in jobs and educational opportunities for young people who are unemployed than to lock them up and invest in jails and incarceration.
Democratic socialism means that if somebody works 40 hours a week, that person should not be living in poverty, that we must raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour over the next several years.
It means that we join the rest of the world and pass the very strong paid family and medical leave legislation now sitting in Congress.
I want you to think about this. I really want you to see what goes on in our country today.
It’s not only that every other major country – I’m talking about Europe or Scandinavia – virtually every country in the world – poor country, small country – reached the conclusion that when a woman has a baby she should not be forced to be separated from that newborn baby after a week or two and have to go back to work.
Making sure that moms and dads can stay home and get to love their babies is a family value that we should support, and that is why I want and will fight to end the absurdity of the United States being one of the only countries on Earth that does not guarantee at least three months of paid family and medical leave.
Democratic socialism to me means that we have government policy – strong government policy – which does not allow the greed and profiteering of the fossil fuel industry to destroy our environment and our planet.
And it means to me that we have a moral responsibility to combat climate change and leave this planet healthy and habitable for our kids and our grandchildren.
Democratic socialism means that in a democratic, civilized society the wealthiest people and the largest corporations must pay their fair share of taxes.
Yes, innovation, entrepreneurship and business success should be rewarded. But greed for the sake of greed is not something that public policy should support.
It is not acceptable to me that in the last period of time – last two years – 15 of the wealthiest people in this country – 15 people – saw their wealth increase in this rigged economy by $170 billion. Got it? Two years, 15 people, $170 billion increase in their wealth. That is more wealth than is owned by the bottom 130 million Americans.
Let us not forget what Pope Francis has so elegantly stated and I quote “We have created new idols. The worship of the golden calf of old has found a new and heartless image in the cult of money and the dictatorship of an economy which is faceless and lacking any truly humane goal.”
In other words, we’ve got to do better than that. It’s not a political issue. It’s not an economic issue. It is a cultural issue. We have got to stop worshiping people who make billions and billions and billions of dollars while we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any country.
It’s not acceptable to me that major corporations stash their profits in the Cayman Islands and other tax havens to avoid paying $100 billion a year in taxes.
It’s not acceptable that hedge fund managers pay a lower effective tax rate than nurses or truck driver.
It is not acceptable that billionaire families are able to leave virtually all of their wealth to their families without paying a reasonable estate tax.
It is not acceptable that Wall Street speculators are able to gamble trillions of dollars in the derivative market without paying a nickel in taxes on that speculation.
Democratic socialism to me does not just mean that we must create a nation of economic and social justice and environmental sanity. Of course it does mean that. But it also means that we must create a vibrant democracy based on the principle of one person one vote.
It is extremely sad – and I hope all of you will pay a lot of attention to this issue – it is extremely sad that the United States – one of the oldest, most stable democracies in the world has one of the lowest voter turnouts of any major country and that millions of young people and working people have given up on the political process entirely.
In the last mid-term election just a year ago, 63% of the American people didn’t vote. 80% of young people did not vote.
Clearly, despite the efforts of many Republican governors who want to suppress the vote to make it harder for people of color and old people to participate in the political system, our job together is to make it easier for people to vote, not harder for people to vote.
It is not a radical idea and I will fight for this as hard as I can as President to say that everyone in this country who is 18 years of age or older is registered to vote. End of discussion.
So the next time that you hear me attacked as a socialist, like tomorrow, remember this: I don’t believe government should take over the grocery store down the street, our own means of production.
But I do believe that the middle class and working families of this country who produce the wealth of this country deserve a decent standard of living and that their incomes should go up not down.
I do believe in private companies that thrive and invest and grow in America, companies that create jobs here rather than companies that are shutting down an America and increasing their profits by exploiting low-wage labor abroad.
I believe that most Americans can pay lower taxes if hedge fund managers who make billions manipulating the marketplace finally start paying the taxes that they should.
I don’t believe in special treatment for the top 1%. But I do believe in equal treatment for African-Americans who are right to proclaim the moral principle that black lives matter.
I despise appeals to nativism and prejudice a lot of which we have been hearing in recent months.
And I do proudly believe in immigration reform that gives Hispanics and others a pathway to citizenship and a better life.
And while I’m on that subject, let me just say a real word of concern to what I’ve been hearing from some of the Republican candidates for president in recent months. People can have honest disagreements about immigration or about anything else. That’s called democracy. But people should not be using the political process to inject racism into the debate.
And if Donald Trump and others who refer to Latinos as people from Mexico as criminals and rapists, if they want to open that door, our job is to shut that door and shut it tight.
This country has gone too far. Too many people have suffered and too many people have died for us to continue hearing racist words coming from major political leaders.
Now, I don’t believe in some foreign-ism but I do believe in American idealism. And one of the pleasures, one of the real joys that I’ve experienced on this campaign so far, being here today with you, being all over the country is seeing the huge numbers of young people who are coming up, who want to make this country better, who want to use their intelligence and their energy to address the many problems that we have.
So I want to thank all of the young people here and all over the country for their idealism and do not – do not – become cynical.
I am not running for president because it is my turn. Not quite. I was born in a 3.5 room apartment in a working class family in Brooklyn, New York. I don’t think – I got Brooklyn. I got Vermont. And by the way, I visited California…
But in seriousness it is not quite my turn. That’s not why I’m running for president.
But I am running for president in order for all of us to be able to live in a nation of hope and opportunity, not for some but for my 7 grandchildren and for all of you.
Nobody understood better than Franklin Delano Roosevelt the connection between American strength at home and our ability to defend America around the world.
And that is why he proposed a second bill of rights in 1944, and he said in that very same state of the union and I quote again, “America’s own rightful place in the world depends in large part upon how fully these and similar rights have been carried into practice for all our citizens for unless there is security here at home there cannot be lasting peace in the world.”
Now, I am not running for president to pursue reckless adventures abroad but to rebuild America’s strength at home.
I will never hesitate to defend this nation, but I will never send our sons and daughters to war under false pretense or pretenses about dubious battles with no end in sight.
And we discussed foreign policy, I know that all of you share with me your shock and your horror at what happened in Paris, and you share with me your condolences for the families who lost loved ones and your hopes and prayers that those who were wounded will recover. And also those same thoughts go out to the families of those who lost loved ones in the Russian flight that we believe was taken down by an ISIS bomb. And also those who lost their lives to terrorist attacks in Lebanon and elsewhere.
To my mind, it is clear that the United States must pursue policies to destroy the brutal and barbaric ISIS regime and to create conditions that prevent fanatical extremist ideologies from flourishing.
But we cannot and should not do it alone. Our response must begin with an understanding of past mistakes and missteps in our previous approaches to foreign policy.
It begins with the acknowledgement that unilateral military actions should be a last resort, not a first resort, and that ill-conceived military decisions such as the invasion of Iraq can wreck far-reaching devastation and destabilization over regions for decades.
It begins with the reflection that the failed policy decisions of the past – rushing to war, regime change in Iraq, or toppling of Mohammad Mosaddegh in Iran in 1953. Mosaddegh was the president. CIA and others got rid of him to protect British petroleum interests. The Shah of Iran came in – a brutal dictator – and he was thrown out by the Islamic revolution and that is where we are in Iran today.
Decisions have consequences often unintended consequences. So whether it was Saddam Hussein or Mosaddegh or Guatemalan president [Jacobo] Arbenz in 1954 in Guatemala, Brazilian president [Joao] Goulart in 1964, Chilean president [Salvador] Allende in 1973, this type of regime change, this type of overthrowing of governments we may not like often does not work, often makes a bad and difficult decision even worse. These are lessons we must learn.
After World War II in response to the fear of Soviet aggression, European nations and the United States established NATO – the North American Treaty Organization – an organization based on shared interests and goals and the notion of a collective defense against a common enemy.
It is my belief that we must expand on these ideals and solidify our commitments to work together to combat the global threat of terror.
We must create a new organization like NATO to confront the security threats of the 21st century – an organization that emphasizes cooperation and collaboration to defeat the rise of violent extremism and importantly to address the root causes underlying these brutal acts.
We must work with our NATO partners. We must work to expand the coalition with Russia, and we must work with members of the Arab League.
But let us be very clear. While the United States and other western nations have the strength of our militaries and our political system, the fight against ISIS is a struggle for the soul of Islam and countering violent extremism and destroying ISIS must be done primarily by Muslim nations with the strong support of their global partners.
Now this has been my view long before Paris. But I’m very happy to tell you that the same sentiments have been echoed by people like Jordan’s King Abdullah II in a speech just Sunday in which he said that terrorism is the greatest threat to our region – the Gulf region, the Middle East – and that Muslims must lead the fight against it. He noted that confronting extremism is both a regional and international responsibility and that it is incumbent on Muslim nations and communities to confront those who seek to hijack their societies and their religion with generations of intolerance and violent ideology.
And let me congratulate King Abdullah not only for his wise remarks but also for the role that his small country is playing in attempting to address the horrific refugee crisis in that region.
A new and strong coalition of western powers, Muslim nations, and countries like Russia must come together in a strongly coordinated way to combat ISIS, to seal the borders that fighters are currently flowing across, to share counter-terrorism intelligence, to turn off the spigot of terrorist financing, and to end support for exporting extremist ideologies.
Now, what does that mean? It means that in many cases we must ask more from those countries in the Gulf region. While Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon in their own ways have accepted their responsibilities for taking in Syrian refugees, other countries in the region have done nothing or very little.
Equally important – and this is a point that may make some people uncomfortable but it is a point that must be made – countries in the region like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, the UAE, countries of enormous wealth and resources have contributed far too little in the fight against ISIS. That must change.
King Abdullah is absolutely right when he says that Muslim nations must lead the fight against ISIS and that includes and must include some of the most wealthy and powerful nations in the region who up to this point have done far too little.
Saudi Arabia, as it turns out, has the third largest defense budget in the world. Yet, instead of fighting ISIS, they are focused more on a campaign to oust Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen.
Kuwait, a country whose ruling family was restored to power by the United States driving Saddam Hussein’s Iraq out of Kuwait, has been a well-known…source of financing for ISIS and other violent extremists.
It has been reported that Qatar will spend up to $200 billion on the 2022 World Cup, including the construction of an enormous number of facilities to host that event. $200 billion on hosting a soccer event, yet very little to fight ISIS.
Worse still, it has been reported that the government there has not been vigilant in stemming the flow of terrorist financing and that Qatari individuals and organizations funnel money to some of the extreme terrorist groups in the region.
All of this has got to change. Wealthy and powerful Muslim nations in the region can no longer sit on the sidelines and expect the United States, our young men and women, and our taxpayers to do it for them. They have got to come up to the plate.
As we develop a strongly coordinated effort, we need a commitment from these countries that the fight against ISIS takes precedence over the religious and ideological differences that hamper the kind of cooperation that we desperately need.
Further, we all understand that Bashar al Assad, president of Syria, is a brutal dictator who has slaughtered many of his own people.
I am pleased that we saw last weekend diplomats from all over the world known as the International Syria Support Group set a timetable for a Syrian-led political transition with an open and fair election. These are the promising beginnings of a collective effort to end the bloodshed and move toward a political transition in Syria.
The diplomatic plan for Assad’s transition from power is a good step in a united front. But our major priority must be to defeat ISIS.
Nations all over the world who share a common interest in protecting themselves against international terrorism must make the destruction of ISIS the highest priority.
Nations in the region must commit that instead of turning a blind eye, they will commit their resources to preventing the free flow of terrorist finances and fighters to Syria and Iraq.
We need a commitment that they will count on – the violent rhetoric that fuels terrorism, rhetoric that often occurs within their very borders.
This is the model which we must pursue in order to address the global threats that we face.
While individual nations obviously have historic disputes, the United States and Russia now have very strong differences of opinion on some very serious issues, Iran and Saudi Arabia, to put it mildly, do not like each other, but the time is now to do everything possible to put aside those differences, to work toward a common goal of destroying ISIS.
Sadly as we have seen recently, no country is immune from attacks by the violent organization called ISIS.
Thus, we must work with our partners in Europe, the Gulf region, Africa, and southeast Asia all along the way asking the hard questions whether their actions are serving our unified purpose.
The bottom line is that ISIS must be destroyed but it cannot be defeated by the United States alone. A new and effective coalition must be formed with the Muslim nations leading the efforts on the ground while the United States and other major forces provide the support they need.
…All across this country, there is a significant alienation from the political process. People look to Washington and they throw their hands up and they say “What in God’s name is going on there? Why aren’t our Senators and our Congressmen paying attention to our needs? Why aren’t we developing a rational foreign policy rather than talking again about getting involved in a quagmire in the Middle East, which could lead to perpetual warfare?”
So let me conclude just by saying this. The problems that we face as a nation are indeed very, very serious. I talked on some. There’s a lot we haven’t even touched upon.
But by in large, all of these problems were caused by bad human decisions and if we come together, if we stand together, if we do not allow ourselves to be divided up by race, by whether we’re gay, whether we’re straight, whether we’re born in America, we weren’t born in America, whether we’re male or female, if we stand together and if we focus on how we can create sane foreign policy, how we can rebuild the middle class, how we can combat climate change, how we can create a nation in which we end racism and homophobia, if we are prepared to do that, if you as young people are prepared to engage in the political process, I have no doubt that there is nothing, nothing, nothing that together we cannot accomplish.
Thank you all very much.
And my vision is not just making modest changes around the edge. It is transforming American society to make it a much more vibrant democracy and an economy which works much, much better for working families.
And by the word socialism, what is implistic [sic] in that to me is that it is imperative that if we are serious about change and a lot of people want change but at the end of the day real change does not take place unless we have the courage to take on the very powerful special interests that control our country.
Now, that’s my view. Not everybody here may agree with me and certainly most people in Congress would not.
But I think at the end of the day, what we have got to recognize is not just that we are experiencing mass income and wealth inequality or a declining middle class but that a small number of people have extraordinary power and that if we are not prepared to take them on and to tell them that they cannot run the government for their own interests, the real change that many of us want will never take place.
So when I use the word socialist – and I know some people are uncomfortable about it – I say that it is imperative that we create a political revolution that millions of people get involved in the political process and that we create a government that works for all, not just the few.
And that is an important point that has to be made. You know, we’re not a poor country. We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. And we should be doing a lot better for our working people. Should not be having 47 million people living in poverty.
But how do you create wealth? Of course wealth has to be created. And one of the points that I made in my remarks – let me give you one example of it – I believe that we significantly strengthen our economy by having a Medicare for all single payer system, which will free millions of people to get involved in creating businesses and creating jobs who today are trapped at work only because they get the health insurance that that employer is now providing.
I think if you have a trade policy not designed by corporate America to shut down plants in America and move abroad but a trade policy which works for the American worker, you can create over a period of years millions of decent paying jobs.
I believe that when you raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour, it’s not only the right thing to do. But as Roosevelt talked about in the 1930s, when you put money – disposable income – into the hands of people today who have no disposable income, they will then take that money, spend it, and create jobs.
So I think the policies that I am advocating will in fact create wealth, will strengthen the economy. These are diametrically opposed – the polar opposite – to this trickle-down economic theory that says if we give tax breaks to billionaires and Wall Street somehow or another that will benefit the middle class and the poor. History has been very clear, that is a false doctrine. It hasn’t worked.
…As many of us know, one of your main policies is to make all public universities tuition free. In the United States, many of the great universities are private universities…so how do you plan to combat the high prices of private university?
So what we do are two things. Public colleges and universities are tuition free. And then we also say is that it is a little bit crazy that today you have many people out there who are paying interest rates on their student debt of 6%, 8%, 10% when we can refinance our homes at 3% or 4%.
So what our legislation does is to allow people the ability and the freedom to get the lowest possible interest rates on their debt that they can get. And that will save people all over this country collectively many, many billions of dollars.
Now, if you add those two features together – free tuition in public colleges and universities and statutorily lowering interest rates on student debt – it is an expensive proposition. It costs about $70 billion a year. And yes, it can be paid for by a tax on Wall Street speculation.
All right, second point about private universities. Of course, we know that Georgetown and many other private universities do an extraordinary job and we’re all proud of the quality of education they provide.
Our legislation includes substantially increasing Pell Grants to ensure that working class and lower income families and middle class families can get the help they need if they choose to send their kids here to Georgetown or Harvard or any place else.
We also significantly increase student work programs so that universities can have funds available to employ students on campus.
So your point is well-taken. Our legislation also makes private colleges and universities less expensive.
…Given attacks by ISIS worldwide, more generally, how will you ensure the safety of the American people?
What in fact I voted against the very first Gulf War, which I had to vote within the first month when I was elected to Congress. I think history will recall that as the right vote.
And then in 2002, after listening to Bush and Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld and listening carefully to what they had to say, I concluded that they were not telling the truth and I voted against the war in Iraq.
But I did vote for the war in Afghanistan because I thought that Osama bin Laden should be held accountable and I did vote for President Clinton’s effort to end the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.
So no, I am not a pacifist. I think that war should be the last resort but we have the strongest military on Earth and of course we should be prepared to use it when it is necessary.
In terms of where we are right now, I think the main point that I tried to make in my remarks is I think it would be a terrible mistake for many, many reasons for the United States virtually unilaterally to get involved in the war in Syria or re-involved in the war in Iraq.
And the nightmare is we send our troops in there in combat, they come back in caskets. We send more troops in; a plane gets shot down; we send more planes in and 20 or 30 years from now we’re still talking about how we get out of the quagmire in that region of the world.
I agree very, very strongly with King Abdullah, who is absolutely right. What is going on there is a struggle for the soul of Islam. There are millions and millions and millions of Muslims who detest and are disgusted with what ISIS and other extremist groups are doing.
But now they are going to have to get into the process. It is their troops that are going to have to be on the ground.
We should be supportive. And I support President Obama’s efforts with airstrikes, with special forces. But the leadership must come from the Muslim nations.
In terms of how we protect our country, obviously, we have got to be super vigilant against terrorist attacks.
I know there’s a lot of discussion about refugees. Let me say a word on that.
I am not happy to hear what I have heard in recent days about people who are taking about going into or maybe closing down mosques in America.
I’m not happy about hearing that we should close our borders to men, women, and children who have been displaced, driven out of their homes because of terrorism. And I believe that yes, after thorough screening, which we have the capability of doing, working with the rest of the world, we should accept refugees from that region. That’s the moral thing to do. And accepting refugees is what America has always done and I think it’s improper to turn our back on those people now.
But if you look into the future – this is not Bernie Sanders – this is the CIA, this is Defense Department, this is countries all over the world. This is what they are saying. If we do not get our act together, if there is more drought around the world, if there is more flooding, if there are more extreme weather disturbances, if sea levels continue to rise and flood coastal regions, there will be a massive displacement of people.
People need water. People need land to grow their crops. And if they do not have that land and water, they’re going to migrate and they’re going to be in competition with other people for limited natural resources.
And when that happens according to the CIA, according to our own Defense Department, that lays the ground work for international conflict.
So in my view, it is not debatable. Of course, climate change is a major, major inducement to international conflict and also to terrorism.
For example, right now, in Syria as a result of a sustained drought, people have left the rural areas flooded into the cities, causing more instability and becoming people who could succumb to extremist propaganda. Massive instability in Syria.
So what we have to do – and by the way – you know, when I was your age, the challenge of my generation was civil rights. And all over this country and I was involved when I was at the University of Chicago when young people stood up and said, “You know what? We’re going to end segregation in America.”
And those of us who were northern schools helped out financially our brothers and sisters fighting in the south who were getting their heads busted open and we did what we could where we were.
My guess among many other issues that are out there, one of your great challenges today – continue to fight against racism and sexism and homophobia. But also understand that we are fighting for the future of the planet.
And if we do not move aggressively – I’m on the energy committee in the Senate and the environmental committee. I talk to scientists all over the world and what they are telling us is we have a small window of opportunity to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel into energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
We need to take on the fossil fuel industry who are looking at short-term profits ahead of the future of this planet. And I hope you will be involved in that effort to transform our energy system.
…With a Republican majority in both houses, would you be willing to compromise some of your ideals to get your most important plans passed?
…How do you plan on implementing your social programs given the immense opposition in Congress?
Just two years ago, I worked as Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs. I worked with Republicans like John McCain in the Senate and people like Congressman Jeff Miller who were in the House who was Chairman of the Veterans Committee there to put together the most comprehensive veterans health care bill passed in recent memory. So yes, I can compromise.
But here is the point that I want to make.
On many of the issues that I have talked about – virtually all of them – these are not radical extremist ideas.
I am not coming before the American people and say “Look, I am this radical wild-eyed socialist. Crazy ideas but listen to me.”
You know, that’s not the issue. Look at the issues.
We want to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. Raising the minimum wage – wildy popular.
I want to create 13 million jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. Wildly popular.
Pay equity for women workers. Wildly popular…
Making public colleges and universities tuition free and lowering student debt. Wildly popular.
Combatting climate change. There are some Republicans who still don’t accept it. But most Americans do. All right?
Asking the rich to start paying their fair share of taxes – the vast majority of Americans think that that’s right.
So here’s my point. Here’s my point. The real question is sure, you’ve got to compromise. But the really more important point is why is Congress so far out of touch with the way the American people are in?
The Republican agenda is among other things to cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid and give huge tax breaks to billionaires and to ignore the planetary crisis of climate change. How many people believe in that agenda?
I don’t know. 5%, 10%. Surely, a very small minority of people.
So when I talk about the political revolution, when I talk about transforming American politics, what I am talking about is bringing in the voices of millions and millions of people who have given up on the political process, to have their views and their needs being heard by Congress.
When that happens, everything that I talked about will be passed. If that does not happen, virtually nothing will be passed.
So what this campaign from my perspective is about and I say this in every speech that I give, it’s not just electing Bernie Sanders to be president. I surely would appreciate your support. But very honestly, it is much more than that because no president – not Bernie Sanders or anybody else – can implement the kinds of changes we need in this country unless millions of people begin to stand up and fight back.
And I think right here on college campuses all over this country, we’re beginning to see that fight back. We’re beginning to see that fight back among low-wage workers who are going out into the streets and saying, “You know what? We can’t make it on $8 or $9 an hour. Raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.”
We are beginning to see that movement develop and I hope you will be part of that movement because if you are we can in fact transform this country.
Thank you all very much.
…Let me thank all of you who are here tonight for what you do. Every person in this room regardless of who they are supporting for the Democratic nomination is doing what is patriotic for our country. You’re standing up and being involved in the political process. So thank you all.
As many of you know in the last number of months, I have had the privilege of traveling throughout our great country and meeting many, many thousands of Americans, and this is what I have learned. I have learned that from coast to coast the American people are crying out for change, for real change.
They are tired of the same old, same old establishment politics, establishment economics, and establishment foreign policy. They want this country to move in a new direction.
When in the last election, 63% of the American people didn’t vote, when 80% of young people and low-income people didn’t vote, when millions of people have given up on the political process, when there is a profound disgust across the political spectrum with a campaign finance system that allows millionaires and billionaires to buy elections through their Super PACs, now is not the time for establishment politics. Now is the time for a political revolution.
What most people in our country understand is that we are living in a rigged economy where almost all of the new income and wealth generated is going to the top 1%, where Wall Street continues to dominate our economic and political life, where corporate profits are soaring at the same time as we have more people living in poverty than at almost any time in the modern history of America. When all of that is happening, now is not the time for establishment politics. Now is the time for a political revolution.
When our foreign policy for the last many decades has failed the American people, has led to wars like the war in Iraq, which we never should have gotten into. Now is not the time for more establishment foreign policy.
We began this campaign seven months ago. We had no organization. No money. Very little national name recognition and were at 3% in the polls.
Today, we have hundreds of thousands of volunteers in every state of this country, including some 5,600 here in New Hampshire.
Today, without a Super PAC, we have more than 800,000 individual contributors.
And today, with your help, we can pull off one of the great political upsets in the history of our country.
We have come a long way in seven months. The people of this country want real change and that is what this campaign is about.
I am running for President because we live in the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but that reality means very little to most Americans because in a rigged economy, the rich gets much richer while almost everybody else gets poorer.
The issue of wealth and income inequality is in my view the great moral issue of our time. It is the great economic issue of our time. It is the great political issue of our time. And together this is an issue we will resolve.
I am running for President because the great middle class of this country once the envy of the world has been disappearing for the last 40 years.
Today, husbands and wives, single moms, and even grandparents are working longer hours for lower wages and we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
I am running for President because we need an economy that works for working families not just millionaires and billionaires.
I am running for President because we need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour over the next few years.
We need pay equity for women workers.
We need to pass the Paid Family and Medical Leave Act now in Congress. Paying $1.38 a week more is a good investment for families throughout this country who will receive 12 weeks of guaranteed paid family and medical leave.
I am running for President because we need to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, invest $1 trillion in our roads and our bridges and our rail system and create up to $13 million good-paying jobs.
I am running for President because when youth unemployment and underemployment is at 30%, 40%, 50% – 51% for African-American kids, we need to invest in jobs and education, not more jails and incarceration.
We must not continue having more people in jail than other country on Earth. We major reforms in a very broken criminal justice system.
We need to stop the killing of unarmed African-Americans by the police.

We need to re-think the so-called war on drugs and take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act.
We need to treat substance abuse as a serious health issue, not a criminal issue.
We need to understand that in New Hampshire, Vermont, and across this country, we have a major crisis in opiate addiction and we need a revolution in mental health treatment so that all people, regardless of their income, can get the help they need.
I am running for President because 11 million undocumented people cannot continue living in the shadows.
We need a comprehensive immigration reform program and a path toward citizenship.
I am running for President because we loudly and clearly tell the Republicans “No, we are not going to cut Social Security. We are not going to cut benefits for disabled veterans. We will expand those benefits by lifting the cap on taxable incomes and by developing a new formulation to determine cost of living adjustments for Social Security.”
I am running for President because it is time that Wall Street, corporate America, and the billionaire class understand that they cannot have it all, that they are going to start paying their fair share of taxes.
It makes no sense to me that every year we lose about $100 billion in tax revenue because large profitable corporations stash their money in the Cayman Islands and in other tax havens.
It makes no sense to me that corporations like Pfizer think they can leave this country and become a foreign company to avoid paying their fair share of taxes while at the same time they charge us the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
I am running for President because in a highly competitive global economy, we need to make certain that all of our young people who have the ability and the qualifications are able to get a college degree regardless of the income of their families.
And that is why we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition free.
And while we make these public colleges and universities tuition free, we are also going to substantially lower the interest rate on student debt.
And you know how we’re going to pay for it? We’re going to pay for it on a tax on Wall Street speculation.
I am running for President because as a result of the disastrous Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case, the American political system has become totally corrupted and the foundations of American democracy are being undermined.
In our great country, millionaires and billionaires should not be able to buy elections.
And as President, I will fight to overturn Citizens United and move toward public funding of elections.
And together we are going to end the voter suppression imposed by many Republican governors all over this country.
In America, we should have one of the highest voter turnout rates of any country on Earth, not one of the lowest.
I am running for President because in these difficult times against vitriolic Republican rhetoric, we must protect a woman’s right to choose. And we must defend Planned Parenthood.
And I know that I speak for every person in this room when we send our condolences to the families of those who were killed in Friday’s attack at Planned Parenthood in Colorado.
We must also fight to make certain that our gay brothers and sisters continue to have the right to marry.
I am running for President because we must leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable for our kids and our grandchildren and I have three grandchildren living right here in New Hampshire.
Despite what many of my Republican colleagues think, climate change is real. It is caused by human activity. And it is already causing devastating problems in our country and throughout this Earth.
The United States must lead the world in combatting climate change and transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
Republicans must start worrying about the planet that they will leave to their kids and to their grandchildren and worry less about the campaign contributions they may lose from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry.
Because climate change is the greatest environmental challenge of our time, I oppose the Keystone pipeline from day one, and that is why right here in New Hampshire, I believe the northeast energy direct pipeline that would carry fracked natural gas for 400 miles through 17 communities is a bad idea and should be opposed.
As every one knows, we live in a difficult and dangerous world, and there are people out there who want to do us harm.
As President, I will defend this country but I will do it responsibly.
We do not need a “tough” foreign policy; we need a smart foreign policy.
As a member of Congress I voted against the war in Iraq in 2002. And I will never forget that moment because when you’re dealing with votes that send young men and women into harm’s way, those are votes you don’t forget.
And I listened during that period very carefully to what President Bush and Vice President Cheney and the others in the Bush administration were saying. Listened very carefully. And I didn’t believe a word of it.
And it gives me no joy – none whatsoever – to tell you that much of what I feared would happen in terms of the destabilization of that region did happen.
Now, today, we are confronted with a barbaric organization called ISIS – an organization which in my view must be destroyed.
But I hope that we have learned some of the very painful lessons of the past and that is we cannot and should not attempt to do it alone.
We cannot and should not be trapped in perpetual warfare in the Middle East year after year after year.
We need in my view to put together a broad coalition, including the very strong participation of the Muslim countries in the region.
While the U.S. and other western nations have the strength of our militaries and political systems, the fight against ISIS is a struggle for the soul of Islam and countering violent extremism and destroying ISIS must be done primarily by Muslim countries with a strong support of their global partners, the United States, the UK, France, Germany, Russia, Iran, and others.
Now, interestingly these same sentiments have been echoed by many in the Gulf region.
Jordan’s King Abdullah II said in a recent speech that terrorism “is the greatest threat to our region” and that “Muslims must lead the fight against it.”
He noted that confronting extremism is both a regional and international responsibility and that it is incumbent on Muslim nations and communities to confront those who seek to hijack their societies and generations with intolerance and violent ideology.
And let me congratulate King Abdullah not only for his wise remarks but also for the role that his small country is playing in attempting to address the horrific refugee crisis in the region.
Now, what does all of this mean? Well, it means that in many cases, we must ask more from those in the region.
While Jordan and Turkey and Egypt and Lebanon have accepted their responsibilities for taking in Syrian refugees, other countries in the region have done little or nothing.
Equally important – and this is a point that must be made. It is a contentious point and perhaps not everybody agrees with me. But in my view, countries in the region like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, the UAE – countries of enormous wealth and resources – have contributed far too little in the fight against ISIS.
And that must change. King Abdullah is absolutely right when he says the Muslim nations must lead the fight against ISIS and that includes some of the most wealthy and powerful nations in the region who up to this point have done far too little.
Saudi Arabia has the third largest defense budget in the world. Yet, instead of fighting ISIS, they are focused more on a campaign to oust Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen.
Kuwait, a country whose ruling family was restored to power by United States troops after the First Gulf War, has been a well-known source of financing for ISIS and other violent extremists.
It has been reported that Qatar will spend some $200 billion on the 2022 World Cup, including the construction of an enormous number of facilities to host that event. $200 billion to host a soccer event, yet very little to fight against ISIS.
That must change.
Wealthy and powerful Muslim nations in the region can no longer sit on the sidelines and expect the United States to do all of their work for them.
As we develop a strongly coordinated effort, we need a commitment from these countries that the fight against ISIS takes precedence over the religious and ideological differences that have hampered the kind of cooperation that we desperately need.
Let me conclude my remarks by saying this. First, again, thank you to every person in this room for doing what too few Americans are doing and that is protecting our democracy and getting involved in the political process.
Thank you all.
But let me also say this. Let me give you an important – a political reality that I think all of you understand and that is Republicans win elections when voter turnout is low. That’s a fact. Democrats win when voter turnout is high.
Our job and what we try to do in public policy and in politics is to encourage more and more people to participate. Republicans, sadly, try to suppress the vote and make it harder for people to participate.
Having said that, I believe if we are going to retain the White House and continue to build on the excellent work that President Obama and Vice President Biden have done, I believe that from the bottom of my heart if we are going to succeed in doing that, if we are going to succeed in regaining the Senate, doing well in the House, winning governors’ seats all over America, we need to have a campaign which is striking a nerve with working people, with young people, and with many of our citizens who have turned their backs on the political process.
And I believe that that is the campaign that Bernie 2016 is creating.
When I go to events all over this country and I see 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 people coming out, many of them people who have never gone to a political meeting in their lives, I see a future not just for my candidacy but for the Democratic Party.
When I see hundreds of thousands of people again many of whom have never been to a political meeting in their lives sign up and want to get involved in the Bernie 2016 campaign, I see hope for the future of this country.
So I believe that the campaign that we are running, a campaign which is generating an enormous amount of energy and excitement all across this country is a campaign that not only retains the White House but takes the Democratic Party a huge step forward into the future.
We are running a campaign which calls for real change in America. We are running a campaign which calls for a political revolution. And tonight, I ask all of you to join that revolution.
Thank you very much.

Question:
Let’s talk about guns. Do you own a gun?
Bernie Sanders:
No.
Question:
…In 2005, you voted for a bill that shields gun manufacturers from losses. And after that, Secretary Clinton said the following: “Maybe it’s time for Sen. Sanders to stand up and say, ‘I got this one wrong.’” Did you make a mistake?
Bernie Sanders:
No. It was a long – like many pieces of legislation, like many of the 10,000 votes that I cast, bills are complicated.
But let’s be clear. When I ran for the United States Congress in 1988, I ran as an independent taking on a Democrat and a Republican. What the gun people said is you can vote for the Democrat or Republican but don’t vote for Bernie Sanders. You know why? Because I said that we should not be selling assault weapons in the United States of America. I lost that election by 3%.
Throughout my political career, I have ended up with a D-minus voting record from the NRA.
I have voted to improve and extend the instant background check.
I voted against the gun show loophole, and I also believe that we should make the straw man situation a federal crime.
And I believe that we need a revolution in mental health so that people who need mental treatment can get it now, not two years from now.
Question:
…But in this case, did you make a mistake?
Bernie Sanders:
No…[Overlapping audio]
There were provisions in that bill – for example, you are a small gun shop owner in the state of Vermont. You sell her a gun legally. She goes through the instant background check. Then she goes out later and shoots somebody. Should you be sued? I don’t think so.
On the other hand, if you are a gun manufacturer who’s selling guns into an area and you’re selling a whole lot of guns and you have reason to believe that a lot of those guns are not meant for people in that area but are being distributed to criminal elements, should you be prosecuted? Damn right.
So I think what we have to do is take a new look at that legislation and get rid of the – [overlapping audio] – it’s not a mistake. Like many pieces of legislation, it is complicated.
But on the issue of guns, let me be very clear. I support the president. I think we’ve got to expand and extend and improve the instant background check. We’ve got to do everything we can to end these horrific murders and mass murders that we’re seeing in this country.

Question:
But as you know, Secretary Clinton has been criticizing you. Have you noticed lately that she’s been getting more aggressive with you?
Bernie Sanders:
Yes!
Question:
Why is that?
Bernie Sanders:
I don’t know. It could be that the inevitable candidate for the Democratic nomination may not be so inevitable today.
And I think if you look at the crowds that we are bringing forth here in Iowa, in New Hampshire, all over this country, the excitement that we’re generating where millions of people are now saying…that maybe it’s time to go beyond establishment politics and establishment economics, maybe it’s time for a political revolution to take on the billionaire class and create an economy that works for all of us.
Question:
But can a socialist be the next president of the United States?
Bernie Sanders:
A Democratic Socialist certainly can and will be.
Question:
…You’ve been a supporter of affirmative action for a long time. But I want to know how would you respond to a white student who believes that their access to education is being limited by affirmative action?
Bernie Sanders:
Well, how I would respond is saying that it’s time not to play off white against black. It’s to make sure that every kid in this country regardless of income can get a college education, which is why I am vigorously fighting to make sure that all public colleges and universities are tuition-free.
And I would say to that white kid, “You know what? You deserve an education so does the black kid next to you. So does every kid in America.”
And in the richest country in the history of the world, we can do that and we’re going to pay for that, by the way, and including lowering student interest rates on student debts. You know how we’re going to pay for that? By a tax on Wall Street speculation.
Every kid in this country has a right to a higher education.
Question:
…If the Supreme Court were to end affirmative action, what would you do to ensure that minority students have access to higher education?
Bernie Sanders:
Everything that I can.
Look, it’s no great secret that many of the public schools, elementary schools, high schools in this country in minority areas are just not working. Many of them are drop-out factories.
So we have got to do – we have got to do everything we can to make certain that all of our kids get a quality education and pay a special attention to those schools that are not doing well.
Now, one of the things I have always believed is that in terms of education, we have to break out dependence on the property tax. Because what happens is the wealthier suburbs can in fact have great schools but the poorer inner city schools cannot. So I think we need equality in terms of how we fund education and make sure the federal government plays an active role to make sure that those schools who need it the most get the funds that they deserve.

Question:
…In light of the recent large-scale raids of immigrant families, you’ve called on President Obama to extend temporary protective status or safe haven to Central American immigrants that allows individuals temporary status and work visas until they can return safely to their country of origin.
You’ve said protected status should be administered on a case-by-case basis. But I’m curious. Can you be more specific?
Bernie Sanders:
Sure, sure. What that means is that I think most of us know in some cases people who have been deported from this country back to Honduras, back to Guatemala end up getting killed because their communities are being run by drug cartels.
So where we believe that people’s life is in danger, obviously you’ve got to protect those people. That’s what I mean by a case-by-case status.
We have a moral responsibility. What refugee status is about is to make sure that people are not forced to return to communities where their lives may be in danger.
Question:
So it’s not blanket TPS for anyone who’s come here from Central America. And then how would you actually decide those case by case? I mean, isn’t the point of TPS – [overlapping audio]
Bernie Sanders:
…But you’ll have people who know the communities and know the situations. And I think we’ve got to be pretty liberal about that.
I worry especially about little children being forced to go back to communities where their lives will be miserable and they will be in danger.
Question:
…In 2007, you voted against an immigration bill because of an increase in the guest worker program. In 2013, you said you had reservations about the Gang of Eight bill for very similar reasons. And all of that has won you praise from some unlikely allies – the President of NumbersUSA, an organization that seeks to decrease immigration in this country. You have Congressman Steve King of Iowa – [overlapping audio] – here’s my question. Should immigration advocates be worried about the praise or your plan?
Bernie Sanders:
No…Who else opposed that piece of legislation who left than me? Yes, they did. Some of the most progressive members of the United States Congress opposed it. Why? Because among other things, you have the Southern Poverty Law Center that some of these guest worker programs were akin to slavery. In other words, you have people who are being terribly exploited and if they stood up for their rights, they would be thrown out of the country.
So when you have a major Latino organization opposed against it, some of the leading progressives in Congress opposing it, I think it made sense to oppose it.
But I did support the more recent legislation – immigration reform legislation. I happen to believe that we have got to move to a comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
And as president, if Congress does not do what they should be doing, I will use the executive offices of the presidency.

Question:
…The black unemployment rate remains at twice the rate of white unemployment, a problem that has existed since the March in Washington which as you know was over 50 years ago. It’s been long speculated as to why it’s still true and say who is at fault. Who do you think is at fault and why do you think this reality is true?
Bernie Sanders:
…What you said is exactly right. So let’s look at what’s going on in the American economy today. What’s been going on in the last 30 or 40 years. What you’ve seen is the disappearance of the American middle class. You’ve seen people working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%. So we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on Earth and more massive income and wealth inequality than any other country on Earth.
Now, in terms of unemployment, here’s the truth. Official unemployment in this country is 5%, real unemployment is 10% counting those people who have given up looking for work. African-American youth unemployment in this country is 51% for high school graduates. That is a national disgrace. And what I have said and repeat to you today that instead of investing in jails and incarceration, I’m going to invest in education and jobs. Put the kids back to work.
Question:
…When you say free college…nothing sounds better than that…But it still sounds like such a far-fetched reality. Can you just explain a little bit more how this is ever going to happen?
Bernie Sanders:
You know, very often that point that this is very far fetched. Imagine in the wealthiest country in the history of the world that has massive income and wealth inequality that we would say that all kids in this country have the right to go to a public college and university tuition-free.
And let me add to that. Maybe we should do what every other industrialized country also does and guarantee health care to all people as a right. How’s that? Very far-fetched? I don’t think it’s far-fetched. Countries all over the world are already doing that.
What countries understand that in a competitive global economy, you need the best educated workforce. We do not have the best educated workforce.
So making certain that kids can get the education they need and not leave school deeply in debt is not only good for the young people, it is good for the future of this country.
This is not a radical idea. You want to hear a radical idea? Here’s a radical idea that in the last 30 years trillions of dollars have been re-distributed from the middle class to the top one-tenth of one percent [0.1%]. That is a radical idea. Making public colleges and universities tuition-free is not a radical idea.

Question:
…37 states require that sex education include abstinence. Of these states, 25 require that abstinence be stressed more than any other form. And of these states, only 14 require that your sex education contain verifiable facts.
More than half of American teenagers are sexually active and we know that birth control is critical to not only preventing pregnancy but HIV and STDs which disproportionately affect youths.
Will you end the federal funding that is being poured into these programs for these out-of-step ideas?
Bernie Sanders:
Well, let me start off by saying that something very radical. You ready for something radical? I’m a United States Senator who believes in science and who believes in facts. Now, I know that’s a radical idea nowadays but what the heck.
So I think when we have too much unwanted pregnancies, I think that obviously that women have the right to get the contraceptives they need.
When sexuality is an intrinsic part of human life, we should not run away from it. We should explain biology and sexuality to our kids on a factual basis. Period.
Question:
…You want to break up the big banks on Wall Street…Can you give some specifics? Are we talking about Bank of America? JP Morgan? Wells Fargo? Citigroup?
Bernie Sanders:
…You’re doing good…Here’s what we’ve done. We’ve bailed out Wall Street after their greed and recklessness destroyed this economy. Correct?
We bailed them out and the reason against my vote that Congress bailed them out is banks were too big to fail. Right?
Well, guess what? Three out of the four largest banks in this country today are bigger than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail.
Top six financial institutions issued two-thirds of the credit cards and one-third of the mortgages.
Meanwhile, when you have in my view that much economic and political power, yeah, it is time to break them up.
Question:
…But is it too radical? Can the economy really work without the banks that millions of Americans rely on?
Bernie Sanders:
No one is talking about doing away with banking. What you’re talking about is ending up a horrendous concentration of wealth and power on Wall Street.
…This is what our legislation does. It says not that I sit here and tell you exactly what will happen but the Secretary of Treasury will take a hard look and will determine what banks if they failed would require a bailout. Okay? Those banks would be broken up and I suspect these very large banks that you named would in fact be on that list.
But it’s not a question of destroying the American banking system. Quite the contrary. It means that we won a banking system not like Wall Street whose main goal is greed and I trust that you would see this movie The Big Short and find out what’s going on on Wall Street where they are an island onto themselves only concerned about their profits. I want a banking system that makes affordable loans to small and medium sized businesses so we can create jobs in this country not a handful of banks whose only goal in life is to make as much profit for themselves as they can.

Question:
If you become president…what’s your greatest fear for the economy? If Hillary Clinton becomes president, what’s your greatest fear for the economy?
Bernie Sanders:
Well, I think – I have known Hillary Clinton for 25 years and I have a lot of respect for her. But basically what we are looking at here is an establishment politician. I think it’s too late for establishment politics and establishment economics.
I think we need to have the courage in this country to bring forth a political revolution where millions of people stand up and say “Enough is enough. This government belongs to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.”
Is that Hillary Clinton’s position? Frankly I do not think so.
I believe we should break up the large banks. Hillary Clinton does not.
I voted against the war in Iraq. Hillary Clinton voted for the war in Iraq.
I have been very strong on trade issues. I’m sick and tired of seeing corporations in this country shut down factories, threw millions of workers on the streets, and move to other countries. I’ve been a leader on TPP. I didn’t have to wait a whole long period of time to get on board that opposition.
Question:
…In states where marijuana is legal, there are men and women in jail for non-violent weed related offenses while at the same time people are selling it legally in those states. Statistically speaking, people of color are more likely to be arrested on these charges. Should these people be released from jail?
Bernie Sanders:
Well, let me get to the root of the issue and tell you what I’m trying to do. It’s a very good question. When we talk about criminal justice, what I am talking about is trying to end the horror of more people in America being in jail than in any other country.
We have 2.2 million people in jail, spend $80 billion a year locking up our fellow Americans. This is what I have said.
Right now under the Federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is a Schedule I drug alongside of heroin. Doesn’t make a lot of sense to me. So I’ve introduced legislation to take marijuana out of the Controlled Substance Act.
Now, states may want to go forward to legalize marijuana. As you’ve indicated, four states have.
But I do not want – to me this is a criminal justice issue – I do not want to see a continuation of millions of people over the decades getting police records – police records – because they were caught possessing marijuana.
And your point is right. Whites and blacks end up doing marijuana at about the same rate; four times as many blacks are arrested as whites. It is a criminal justice issue.
So, my own view is from a federal perspective de-criminalize marijuana.

Question:
…When you were a student activist, you outlined a case for sexual freedom in your school newspaper…But today, the national conversation around sex on campus is very different. In fact, we now know one in five American women report an experience of sexual assault while in college. Do you believe it is the role of public institutions to combat this epidemic? And if so, how?
Bernie Sanders:
Absolutely. Right, it is an epidemic. And here’s what I think has to happen. Rape and assault is rape or assault whether it takes on a campus or on a dark street.
And if a student rapes a fellow student that has got to be understood to be a very serious crime and it has got to get outside the school and have a police investigation, and that has got to take place. Too many schools now are seeing this as a student issue – “Let’s deal with it.” I disagree. It is a crime and it has to be treated as a serious crime.
And you are seeing now the real horror of many women who have been assaulted or raped sitting in a classroom alongside somebody who raped them. Somebody raped is a very, very serious crime. It has to be prosecuted. It has to be dealt with.
Question:
…There are also educational components to this. There are questions of whether or not affirmative consent is something that should be taught in America’s high schools and America’s colleges, whether or not bystander programs should be across the board. What do you think about those ideas?
Bernie Sanders:
Of course, I do. I mean, you know, again, this gets back to the previous question about sexuality, about men respecting women, about when somebody says “No” that means no.
So to answer your question, I do believe – I know this is controversial – but we really do need a serious national discussion about sexuality, and this would be part of that discussion. It’s a very important issue.

Question:
…I’m going to read a list of names that unfortunately we both are familiar with. Trayvon Martin. Tamir Rice. Eric Garner. Walter Scott. Sandra Bland…And others. But we know them and we know them and we know them for a terrible reason – violence.
Do you think a level of distrust between the black community and police is justified at this point based on the number of incidents that have taken place in the past 18 months?
Bernie Sanders:
The short answer is yes…
I think – and let me just say something, all of the names that you have listed are well known. And sometimes I think young people especially think “My God, what’s going on now?”
The truth is this has gone on for a very, very long time. The only difference is we did not have cell phones to video these crimes.
Okay. So do I think the black community has a right to be nervous and apprehensive about the police? Absolutely.
And I think we need some radical re-thinking about police procedures and the relationship between police departments and the minority community.
So, for a start, now just the obvious facts is that if a police officer like any other public official breaks the law, i.e. kills somebody, uses lethal force when there should have been necessary, that police officer must be held accountable period.
Number two, I have seen as all of you have seen these pictures on TV of local police departments – Ferguson comes to mind – where you look like you’re in Iraq with an invading army. So I think we’ve got to work to de-militarize police departments and make police departments part of the communities, not seen as invasive, oppressive forces.
Number three, I think we want the move to have police departments look like the communities they are serving in terms of the diversity of the community.
But in terms of criminal justice, police department reform is a very important part of what we have got to do.
Question:
…Police union contracts is something that I think is a little bit behind – more behind the scenes. In some cities, police get days to prepare for questioning. In others, they’re allowed to review the evidence against them before an interview.
As president, will you challenge police unions to reform their contracts to encourage more public trust?
Bernie Sanders:
…I think what we want to have are police departments that are supported and appreciated by the communities not seen in an antagonistic way. So, any and all ways we can do that makes sense to me.
For example, when I was mayor of Burlington, we worked to kind of initiate community policing where cops were out on the streets getting to know people. People, kids were feeling comfortable with the police officers. That’s the kind of goal we all have.
So any and all ways that make people feel comfortable –
Question:
How do we do that in Burlington – wonderful place…and Baltimore?
Bernie Sanders:
It’s hard. But look, there are a number of ways that we need to reform police departments…And some of that is beginning to happen is that being a cop is a hard job.
But what police officers have got to know is that you can break up disturbances, try to break up disturbances without using the kind of force that we too often see.
If you’re seeing a mentally ill person walking down the street with a knife, for example, you know what? There are other ways of apprehending, dealing with that than shooting them. And we need some training on how to deal with mentally ill people.
But there’s a lot that we have got to do to make police departments much more part of the community.

Question:
You say health insurance should be a right of all people. It seems simply having insurance isn’t the solution. Roughly 20% of people under the age of 65 with health insurance still say they’re having problems paying their medical bills. You’ve said you want to break up the big banks. Do you also want to break up – I’m pointing at you a lot – do you want to break up insurance companies?
Bernie Sanders:
As a matter of fact, I wouldn’t talk about it that way. But let’s talk about it this way.
There is one country in the entire industrialized world – one – that does not guarantee health care to all people. That country is called the United States of America.
There is one country in which our people pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. That country’s also called the United States of America.
There is one called the U.S. where 29 million people are uninsured completely and to your point, there are millions more who are underinsured with high deductibles and co-payments. That’s what you’re talking about. Right? Okay.
And yet, despite all of those failings, guess what? We end up spending far, far more per capita than do the people of any other country who guaranteed comprehensive health care to all of their people. We’re spending almost three times as much as the British, 50% more than the French.
So to answer your question, what I believe is in comprehensive universal health care for all people through a Medicare for all single payer program.
And when you do that by the way because you take private insurance companies out of the system whose only function in life is to try to make as much profit as they can, when you control the cost of prescription drugs, you end up providing health care to all comprehensive and saving middle class families thousands of dollars per year. That’s why I believe in a Medicare for all system.

…Thank you so much for coming out this evening. This is a wonderful, wonderful turnout.
…Let me say a few words about our campaign before I get into the thrust of my remarks.
We began this campaign about nine months, and when we began we had no money, no organization, and frankly my name recognition around much of the country was not very, very high.
And a lot of the media pundits were saying, “Well, Bernie combs his hair outstandingly.” And I want some recognition. I just got a haircut. That’s worth something. All right.
My wife said, “Enough is enough. Got to get a haircut.” So we did that.
…And I was considered – this campaign was considered to be a fringe candidacy. Interesting but not significant.
Well, I think a lot has happened in nine months.
With your help, we’ve got a real shot to win here in New Hampshire.
We are doing better and better in Iowa. Just a recent poll had us – actually a poll a few hours old – had us ahead in Iowa.
And I think it is fair to say that we have a lot of momentum. In my view, we will win in Iowa. We will win in New Hampshire if – and here is the big if – there is a large voter turnout.
If working people and young people and older people decide that it is important enough to make a statement – and that’s what your state does…you’re making a statement that will be heard not only all across our country; it will be heard all over the world. And the statement is that we have had enough of establishment politics, establishment economics. We need to move in a new and bold direction.

Now when you come within a week or two weeks or two and a half weeks of an election, suddenly you start hearing a lot of strange things being said.
And one of the things that my opponent Secretary Clinton is saying is that Bernie Sanders is unelectable. He just cannot defeat a Republican candidate in a general election.
So it gives me some pleasure to give you some facts to suggest that that might not just be the case.
Here in your state of New Hampshire – a state where people know Hillary Clinton very well. She ran here in 2008. She’s running hard now. A state where people know me well.
When we were compared in a recent poll from CNN and WMUR just the other day in terms of how well we would do against Republican candidates, this is the result from New Hampshire:
Secretary Clinton loses to Marco Rubio by 1 point. We beat him by 18 points.
Secretary Clinton and Gov. Kasich are tied. We beat Kasich by 21 points.
And here is my favorite because it deals with my good, good friend, Donald Trump. Secretary Clinton defeats Mr. Trump by 9 points. We beat him by 23 points.
All of which reaffirms my love for the smart people in the state of New Hampshire.
But it’s not just New Hampshire. The results are not quite as strong but they’re also strong in Iowa where we do a lot better than Secretary Clinton against Republicans in polls.
And also nationally. There was an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll that came out the other day. Secretary Clinton defeated Trump by 10 points. We defeated him by 15 points.
And even more importantly than polls – polls go up and down – even more importantly is the thrust of our campaign.
Here is a political fact and the fact is Republicans win national elections when people are demoralized and they don’t come out and vote.
And last year in the mid-term election, Republicans won a landslide victory. They won a huge victory all over this country because 63% of the American people didn’t vote. 80% of young people didn’t vote.
And what is going on in this campaign, I think any objective observer would note, that the campaign that has the excitement, that has the energy, that’s bringing working people, that’s bringing young people in, a campaign that has spoken to 450,000 people already all over America, that has spoken to over 27,000 people in meetings like this in New Hampshire, that our campaign is the campaign of excitement, energy, momentum, which will result in a large voter turnout which means victories for the Democrats for the top on down.

Let me also say this. When we began this campaign, as I said, we didn’t have money, we didn’t have an organization, name recognition not all that high.
And one of the problems that we had to face right away is the fact that as all of you know to run for president of the United States, sad but true, you need to raise an unbelievable amount of money.
And what the pundits and experts were saying well, the only way that a candidate in this day and age with this disastrous Citizens United decision, the only way a candidate can raise the kinds of money you need is to set up a Super PAC.
And the truth is that my Democratic opponents set up Super PACs and almost all Republican opponents set up Super PACs.
But to my mind as somebody who does not represent the billionaire class, does not represent corporate America, I decided that I was not going to establish a Super PAC. I was not going to ask them for millions and millions of dollars in money.
But then, you know, that’s a very lovely statement. But that still doesn’t bring you any money.
So how do you do it? Well, what we did is kind of an old fashioned way. We reached out to the middle class and working families of this country.
And what happened is – and this I would not have in a million years dreamed that we could do. In the last 9 months, we have received 2.5 million individual contributions.
That is more than any candidate in the history of the United States of America up to this point in a campaign.
And at a time when candidates are so proudly leaving rooms with millionaires and coming out with with $5 million or $10 million, our average contribution is $27.
So what all of that means is we have already accomplished something enormous, and that is we have shown the American people that despite this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, despite all of the Super PACs, one can still run a strong and I believe winning campaign based on the support for working families and the middle class and I’m very proud of that.
Today in New Hampshire, we have many thousands of volunteers and we have a wonderful organization. And with your help if we can get a good voter turnout on Feb. 9th, I believe we can win this state and I ask for your help to make that happen.
Now, one of the reasons that I think our campaign is doing well is because we are treating the American people as if they were intelligent human beings. Now, that’s a radical idea for a politician. You know, when we are often seen on TV in 6 second soundbites or in media we’ll tell you what the most important issues are, we have chosen to go a different direction.
And what we have tried to say is the most important issues facing us is not what appears on television tomorrow. The most important issues are the issues that you are struggling with today in terms of your lives, your children’s lives and your parents’ lives. Those are the issues that we have got to address whether the media finds them interesting or exciting or not.
Now, what do I mean by that?
I’ll just give you a few examples. Okay? A couple of weeks ago, I was in Nevada. A woman early 30s I think came up to me. She has a 5-year-old child and she said, “Bernie, I am trying to make it with a 5-year-old kid earning $10.45 an hour and paying off my student debt.”

And tears started running down her cheeks. “I don’t know if I can do that. I don’t know what happens to my child.”
In my state and it’s no different here in New Hampshire, we have many, many seniors who are trying to get by on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year Social Security. And if you just do the arithmetic, you can’t get by on $11,000, $12,000 Social Security. And some of those seniors are literally cutting up their medicine, their pills in half, which is not a good thing to do but they don’t have the money they need to buy the medicine that they require.
I fought very hard to expand the Meals-on-Wheels program. Republicans resisted. But all over this country, there are seniors who are on waiting lists trying to get Meals-on-Wheels because they’re having a hard time eating at least one decent nutritious meal a day.
And what a disgrace that is.
And then I go all over the country and I talk to people. Young people stand up. Spoke to a kid the other day. “Senator, I will be graduating college very shortly. I’m going to be $60,000 in debt. Having a hard time finding a job. I was supposed to pay back $1,200 a month. I have no clue as to how I can do that.”
Saw another young man – late 20s, two kids, married. He’s working in sustainable energy. He’s devoted to the environment. He says he’s paying 53% of his limited income on student debts.
Okay?
Talked to moms and dads all over New Hampshire, all over Vermont, all over this country who desperately want quality, affordable child care for the little ones. Can’t find that.
Talked to 55-year-old workers who are scared to death about going to work someday and finding the employer say, “Joe, thanks for working for us for 30 years but we can hire somebody at half your age for half your wages.”
Talked to the kids graduating college in debt, hard time finding jobs commensurate with their education.
Talked to people – and I do all of the time – who are working two or three jobs trying to cobble together some income and some health care.
Talked to husbands and wives whose marriages are being stressed out and strained because people are working so hard and they don’t have enough time to spend with their kids.
Now, the truth is – although my Republican friends deny it – our economy today is obviously in a lot better shape than it was when George W. Bush left office.
When Bush left office, we were hemorrhaging 800,000 jobs a month. That is unbelievable. Our deficit was a record-breaking $1.4 trillion. And oh by the way, the world’s financial system was on the verge of collapse. Other than that, we were in really good shape.
And these people have the nerve to attack Barack Obama.
So we have made progress. We’ve cut the deficit by more than two-thirds. The world’s financial system is now, at this moment anyhow, not on the verge of collapse. And we are growing jobs rather than hemorrhaging jobs.
But having said that, what we must also be honest about and that is to acknowledge that under Republican administrations and Democratic administrations for the last 40 years the great middle class of this country – the middle class that was once the envy of the entire world – has been disappearing. Has been disappearing.
If you are a male worker in the middle of the American economy, half the people on top, half the people on below, you are earning today in inflation adjusted for dollars $700 a year less than you made 41 years ago.

Productivity expanding. Technology exploding. And yet, you’re making $700 less than you made $41 years ago.
If you are a woman, you are making $1,000 less in adjusted income than you made in 2007.
Well, that’s the reality.
Now, the reality is also and why people are so angry is they’re working harder and harder. Many of them are slipping into poverty. Everyone is worried about the future of their kids, which by the way if we do not get our act together, the kids – our kids – will be the first generation in modern American history to have a lower standard of living than we do.
So what people are asking is “What’s going on?”
Technology exploding. Global economy, worker productivity going on. But the middle class for 40 years has been in decline and more and more people living in poverty.
Well, I would suggest to you that a lot of why that is happening has to do with the fact that we have seen in the last 30 years a massive transfer of wealth from the middle class and working families of our country to the top 0.1%.
Trillions of dollars that were owned by the middle class are now gone while the top 0.1% has seen a doubling of the percentage of wealth that they own.
And to my mind, together as we try to turn this country around, one of the areas that we absolutely must focus on is the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality we are experiencing today.
Now, let me just bore you for a moment with a few facts. But I think it’s important for you to know it. They don’t usually get reported in the media but it’s important that people know it.
And that is in America today the top 0.1% – not 1%, 0.1% – owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%. Got that?
Today in America, the wealthiest 20 people – 20 people – that’s the front row here not these guys though – the wealthiest 20 people in America own more wealth than the bottom half of America 150 million people.
Today in America, one family – the Walton family that owns Walmart – one family owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of the American people.
And by the way, when I talk about the Walton family, let me mention to you that I know that you hear a lot from politicians about welfare reform. Right?
We hear a lot about welfare reform. People ripping off the welfare system.
So let me tell you who the major welfare recipient family in America is. It’s not some poor family down the road. The major welfare recipient in America is the Walton family – the wealthiest family in America. And they are the major recipient because you as taxpayers are paying taxes for Medicaid and food stamps and affordable housing that Walmart employees need because the Walton family is not paying them a living wage.
So, when we talk about a rigged economy – an economy where the rich get much richer while almost everybody else gets poorer, it seems a little bit absurd that the middle class has got to subsidize the wealthiest family in this country.
So I say to the Walton family, the owners of Walmart, get off of welfare, start paying your workers a decent wage.

That’s wealth. When we talk about income, despite the fact that so many of our people are working such long hours turns out that 58% of all new income generated goes to the top 1%.
So you’re ready for a radical idea?
Why not? What about creating an economy that works for working families and not for the 1%?
But when we talk about the economy, it is not only the grotesque level – and it is a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality. It is also about jobs.
Now, every month, the federal government issues a set of reports on unemployment.
The report most of you see on the front pages of the paper is the official unemployment report, which is now at about 5%. What the official unemployment report does not include are those people who have given up looking for work and those people who are working part-time who want to work full-time. If you add that together, we’re close to 10% unemployed.
And here’s something that is almost never discussed at all but it is a huge and tragic issue. And that is the problem of youth unemployment. Youth unemployment.
A couple of months ago, I asked some economists to do a study for me and I said tell me what real youth unemployment is in this country for kids who graduate high school, not drop out.
And this is what they said. Kid who are white – 33% unemployed or under-employed. Latino – 36%. African-American – 51%.
Now, if anybody in this room thinks there is not a connection between that outrageously high level of youth unemployment and the fact that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth, I believe you would be mistaken.
Today in America, we have 2.2 million people in jail. We spend $80 billion a year locking them up.
So here’s my second radical idea of the evening and that is maybe it makes a lot more sense for us to be investing in education and jobs rather than jails and incarceration.
Our goal should be to have the best educated population on Earth, not more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
And when we ask ourselves why it is that people are working such long hours. Why?
You know, it’s a funny story but it’s not really so funny. If you remember the history books that we read when we were in school there were pictures of workers 100 years ago marching down streets holding up big placards.
And you know what those placards were saying? They were saying, “We want the 40 hour work week.”
Well, 100 years have come and gone and we still want the 40 hour work week.
Turns out that we in the United States work the longest hours. I don’t know if you know this. We work the longest hours of any people in the industrialized. The Japanese are very hard workers. We work longer hours than they do.
And one of the obvious reasons as to why people work such long hours is that wages in this country are too damn low.

So let me be very clear. The federal minimum wage today of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage. We need to raise the minimum wage to a living wage $15 an hour over the next few years.
And when we talk about equitable wages, I hope that every man in this room will stand with the women in the fight for pay equity for women workers.
There is no rational economic reason why women should be making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. That is just old fashioned sexism. And together, we are going to change that.
Now, in New Hampshire for better or for worse, you see a whole lot of politicians tromping through your state.
And if they are Republicans, you may hear them talking about family values. They just love families. Stay up nights worrying about families, especially if they’re very wealthy families that can contribute to their campaigns.
But you all know what they mean by family values, which is not a laughing matter. What they mean is that no woman in this room, in this state, in this country should have the right to control her own body. I disagree.
What they mean by family values is that we should de-fund Planned Parenthood. I think we should expand funding for Planned Parenthood.
And what they mean by family values is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to get married. I disagree.
Now my wife Jane and I have been married for 27 years. We have four great kids…We got seven beautiful grandchildren, three of them here in New Hampshire. And we’re very proud of our family and we believe very strongly in family values.
But when I talk about family values, my values are a little bit different than the Republicans.
And when I talk about family values, I talk about ending the international embarrassment of the United States of America being the only major country on Earth that does not provide paid family and medical leave.
Now, the good and the beautiful news is that here in New Hampshire today and in Vermont and all of this country, women are giving birth and for those of you who are parents, you know what an extraordinary day that is and it’s a pretty big day for the baby as well.
But here’s the story. If that woman who gives birth today is a working class woman or a lower income woman, the likelihood is that she will have to basically give up her baby, lose contact with her baby, separate from her baby and go back to work in a week or two in order to earn enough money to take care of her family.
That is not a family value. That is the opposite of what a family value is.
Moms – virtually every government on Earth and not only wealthy nations, developing nations, poor nations, understand that mom and dad should have the right to stay home with their newborn baby in what amounts to the most important weeks and months of that human being’s life.

But it’s not just childbirth. All of you know that kids get sick. It happens once in a while. And mom or dad should have the right to stay home with their child when their child is sick.
Parents get sick. Moms, sons and daughters should have the right to tend to their mothers or fathers.
That is why I am strongly supporting and will make happen as president three months of paid family and medical leave for every family in America.
That is not a radical idea. My goodness. If every other country on Earth could do it or virtually every country, I think we can as well.
And when we talk about the economy, obviously we’re talking about job creation. And when real unemployment is 10% and youth unemployment is higher than that, in my view we need a massive federal jobs program to put our people back to work.
We should be hiring teachers, not firing teachers.
When we have a dysfunctional child care and pre-k system which for many families is unaffordable and where child care workers are earning minimum wage or a little bit more, we need to create hundreds of thousands of jobs for well-trained, well-paid child care workers in this country.
And when we have an infrastructure – roads, bridges, water systems, waste water plants and I’m not just talking about Flint, Michigan, talking about municipalities all over this country where water systems are leaking and in bad trouble, we need to rebuild our rail system to catch up with Europe and Japan and even China.
We can create 13 million decent-paying jobs rebuilding our infrastructure with a $1 trillion investment and I intend to make that investment.
Well, people say that’s a great idea but that’s an expensive proposition. Even in Washington, $1 trillion is a lot of money. Where are you going to get the money?
I will tell you where we’re going to get the money. We are going to end this outrageous tax loophole that allows major billion dollar profitable corporations to stash their money in the Cayman Islands and other tax havens…We are losing $100 billion a year. You have corporations that make billions of dollars in profit not paying a nickel in a given year in federal income tax. That’s wrong. We’re going to change that. We are going to invest in our infrastructure, create millions of good-paying jobs.

And by the way, not only do we need to create millions of good-paying jobs, we need to stop the loss of millions of jobs through a disastrous trade policy that allows corporate America to shut down plants here and move to low-wage countries abroad.
When I talk about an economy that is rigged, when I talk about a campaign finance system that is corrupt, when I talk about a criminal justice system that is broken, it turns out that we see all of that in a recent story that was in the papers about a week ago.
And here is the story that tells you how corrupt our economic and political and criminal justice system is.
About a week ago, it was announced that Goldman Sachs, one of the major financial institutions on Wall Street, was going to reach a settlement with the federal government for $5 billion. $5 billion.
And they were reaching that settlement because they had sold – they had sold subprime mortgage packages that were worthless and cheated investors. Investors thought they were buying something that were worth something but it was worthless and Goldman Sachs knew that.
Now, over the last 30 years, Goldman Sachs has operated what we called a revolving door.
A revolving door means that people leave Wall Street and corporate America, go into government, do the bidding of Wall Street and corporate America and then go back to the private sector.
In fact, in the last 30 years, Goldman Sachs has given this country two Secretaries of the Treasury – one under a Republican administration, one under a Democratic administration. That’s how the system works. Big money gets their people into government works for big money.
And then it turns out that the guy who was head of Goldman Sachs, the financial institution that has paid $5 billion in settlement with the government, is a billionaires who a couple of years ago went to the Congress and he said, “You know what, Congress? You have got to cut Social Security. You’ve got to cut Medicare. You’ve got to cut Medicaid. We can’t afford to sustain these programs.” This is coming from a billionaire whose company now paid a $5 billion fine for ripping off the American people.
Now, when we talk about why the American people are angry and why they are increasingly alienated from the political process, it has a lot to do with the fact that there are kids in New Hampshire, kids in Vermont who get arrested for possessing marijuana, and they get a police record.
And you know what? When you get a police record, sometimes it’s a little hard to go out and get a job.
And yet, when you are the CEO or a major executive of a multi-multi-billion dollar financial institution that helped crash the economy because of their greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior, helped create a situation in which millions of people lost their homes, their life-savings, their jobs, when you are that person somehow you do not get a police record. That is wrong. That has got to change.

And by the way, to make a bad situation even worse, this particular company, Goldman Sachs, spends huge amounts of money on campaign contributions and on speakers’ fees to unnamed candidates.
But that’s how the system works. That is how the system works. That is what power is about. That’s why the 1% gets richer and while everybody else gets poorer.
And when I talked about a political revolution and when I talked about bringing millions of people into the political process, what our job is to end that type of corruption and power mongering and to create a government that works for all of us, not just a handful of people.
And speaking about campaign contributions, it turns out ironically that today is the sixth anniversary of one of the worst Supreme Court decisions in the history of this country and that is the Citizens United decision.
And what Citizens United did was to say to the very wealthiest people in this country, “You already own much of the economy. Now we’re going to give you an opportunity to purchase the United States government.” And that is precisely what they are trying to do.
You have one family and a few of their friends, the Koch brothers, the second wealthiest family in America. They have very, very nervous and unhappy. You see, they’r trying to catch up to the Waltons. And they’re only in second place. So they’re working really hard and figure they could become even richer if they can elect candidates who hold their views, which is not just to cut Social Security or Medicare, it is to end Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid and the Environmental Protection Agency. That’s a family that is spending $900 million on this campaign cycle.
Now, when you’ve got one family – second wealthiest in America – spending more money in a campaign than either the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, you’re not looking at a democratic society; you’re looking at an oligarchic form of society. And together we are going to stop that.
And the reason – the reason that that issue is so important is that it touches on every other issue. You name the issue. And if people are elected to office to represent the wealthy and the powerful, the needs of the middle class and working families, the needs of women, the needs of children, the needs of the environment will not be addressed.
So let me conclude that by telling you – and here’s a promise – that no nominee of mine to the United States Supreme Court will get that nomination unless he or she is crystal clear that they will vote to overturn Citizens United.
Everybody in this room knows we live in a highly competitive global economy, and if we need to succeed, we need the best educated workforce in the world. There was once a time when we did. That time is not anymore.
Now, it seems to me it’d be totally absurd beyond comprehension that when we need the intellectual capabilities of all of our people, we have hundreds of thousands of young Americans who are able, who are qualified but who cannot get to college for one reason and one reason alone and that is their families lack the money. That is why I believe that in the year 2016, we must make public colleges and universities tuition-free.

And I say that not just for the obvious reason that it means that bright young people will be able to go to college and people will not leave school deeply in debt. But there is a more profound reason.
I grew up in a family that never had a lot of money. My dad came from Poland. He had dropped out of high school. My mom graduated high school.
But the people who knew you, the people you associate with, your family associates with and my family and other families, you associate people with similar economic backgrounds. And the people we associated with just did not have college education.
And that’s true all over America. There are kids who don’t know anybody who went to college.
If we can make public colleges and universities tuition free, if every parent in this country, every teacher in this country, every child in this country – kids who are in the sixth grade, the eighth grade understand that if they do their school works seriously, if they pay attention in school that they will be able to get a college education regardless of the income of their families. That is revolutionary.
And when we talk about our responsibilities as adults, as inhabitants of this Earth, as parents, as grandparents, it seems to me that we have a moral responsibility to make sure that the planet we leave our kids and grandchildren is healthy and habitable.
I sit on the Senate Environmental Committee and on the Senate Energy Committee. And in that capacity, I have met scientists all over our country, all over our world. And what they say is very clear. Climate change is real. It is caused by human activity. It is already causing major problems in our country and around the world.
And what they also say and this is scary stuff is that if we do not get our act together, this planet Earth – our only planet – could become 5 to 10 degrees warmer by the end of this century. And what that means is more drought, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels, more international conflicts as peoples fight for limited natural resources.
If elected president, I will lead our country into working with Russia, China, India, countries all over the world to take on the fossil fuel industry, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And let me connect some dots here and show you how everything is related to everything else.
Today, we have a major political party. It’s called the Republican Party where not one of their candidates for president – and they have many candidates for president – not one of them has stood up and said, “You know, I’ve read the literature. I’ve talked to the scientists. We’ve got a problem. Climate change is real. We’d better do something about it.” Not one. And in the Congress there are very, very few of them. There are some but very few who are prepared to talk the truth about climate change.
Now, some may say, “Well, you know, Republicans are dumb or something like that.” That’s not the case. Some of you may think it’s the case but it’s not the case. Not here.
I’m on a lot of committees and I serve with Republicans and we discuss issues like cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, and heart disease on the health committee and so forth and they ask the same rational questions anybody else would ask. They don’t go around packing cancer researchers or Alzheimer’s researchers. But on this issue, on this issue, things are very, very different.

And the reason for that is a corrupt campaign finance system which tells the Republicans that if one of them were to stand up and say, “You know what? Climate change is real. We’ve got to do something about that” on that day they would lose their funding from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry.
And that is just one example of many as to why we need campaign finance reform.
When we talk about America and when we talk about the future of our country, what I am trying to do in this campaign is to get people to think big, not small. In other words, if we were an impoverished country, we would have one type of discussion.
But we are the wealthiest country in the history of the world and that calls for a different type of discussion.
Today, there is one major country on Earth – one, the country that you live in – that does not guarantee health care to every man, woman, and child as a right.
Now, I have been criticized for believing that health care is a right not a privilege. People want to criticize me. That’s fine. That is what I believe.
Now, I am a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pension committee and in that capacity spent an enormous amount of time working on the Affordable Care Act.
And in my view, the Affordable Care Act has done some very, very important things. It has ended the private insurance company obscenity of pre-existing conditions.
And in 20 years from now or 50 years from now, people will look back and they’ll say, “I really cannot believe you had a system where insurance companies could tell somebody, ‘Oh, you had breast cancer five years ago. We will provide you with insurance but not for breast cancer because it may recur.’”
It’s like saying I’m going to give you fire insurance except if you have a fire. You know, it is totally, totally insane. That’s gone.
What we have also done through the ACA is provided health insurance to some 17 million Americans who otherwise would not have it.
We have made it much fairer to women who do not have to pay higher prices for insurance than men.
So there’s a lot of good stuff in there.
But let’s also be clear. Today, 29 million Americans have no health insurance. Many more are under-insured with high deductibles and co-payments.
There are people in this room who have high deductibles. Anybody have a high deductible…? $6,000, $4,000, $10,000. Okay.
…But what that means is that all over this country, people do have insurance but they have high deductibles and they have high co-payments. So what does that mean? It means in real world that people hesitate to go to the doctor when they’re sick because they just don’t have the money in their pocket.
And what that also means and I’ve talked to all other doctors in Vermont and all over this country is sometimes people go into the doctor’s office and they are really, really, really sick. And the doctor said, “Why didn’t come here six months ago?” The person said, “Well, I didn’t have any health insurance or maybe I had a high deductible and I couldn’t afford it.” Sometimes those people do not make it. Sometimes they end up in the hospital at great expense and at great suffering.

In my view, when we have a system which has 29 million people uninsured, more under-insured, when we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, which is a huge problem, when we end up spending almost three times more than the British spend who provide health care to all of their people, 50% more than the French spend who provide health care to all their people, far more than our Canadian neighbors spend who provide health care to all of their people, I think we need to move forward to a Medicare for all single payer program.
And because Medicare for all takes the private insurance companies out of the equation and you all know their function is simply to make as much money as possible, when we’d be able to negotiate prices with the drug companies, we end up through a Medicare for all program saving middle class families thousands of dollars a year on their health care costs.
When we talk about issues in America, I know that all of you share with me our fatigue, our disgust, our anger at seeing videos on television of innocent people being shot to death by police officers.
And often those people are African-American or Latino. Now, I was, as you all know, the mayor of Burlington, Vermont for eight years and in that capacity worked very, very hard with our police department. And in my view, the vast, vast majority of police officers in this country are honest, hardworking, and are asked to do an enormously difficult job.
It is not easy being a police officer in the year 2016. But, as is the case with any other public official, if a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
We need major reforms in the criminal justice system. We need to demilitarize local police departments. We need to make police departments look like the diversity of the communities that they serve.
We need to take a hard look at the so-called war on drugs. Right now, under the Federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is listed as a Schedule I drug right next to heroin.
Now, I don’t have to tell the people of New Hampshire about the horror of heroin. I don’t have to tell the people of my state about the horror of heroin. It’s a growing problem all over this country.
A problem, by the way, in terms of opiate addiction and heroin addiction we have got to get a handle on, which means that we need a revolution in mental health treatment in this country, which means that when people need treatment for substance abuse they get the treatment when they need, not six months from when they need it.
And I am aware – I just met a mother earlier today who lost I believe it was her daughter to drugs, and I know how serious that problems is in your state and how serious that problem is in my state.
But when you have marijuana next to heroin, I think that makes no sense to me at all.
And what I worry about is young people who get police records for possession of marijuana and then find it really hard to go out and get a job and get their lives together.
And that is why I have introduced legislation to take marijuana out of the Controlled Substance Act.

In America today, we have about 11 million undocumented people. Many of them are being exploited. Many of them are living in fear. I have talked to young Latinos with tears running down their cheeks who worry that their parents could be deported or that they could be deported.
As president, I will be as aggressive as I can in moving toward comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
Now, we can have honest disagreements about any issue, including about immigration reform.
But what we should not be having in the year 2016, what we should not be having are candidates using racism and bigotry to attack. The idea that somehow in the middle of the night we’re going to pick up and round 11 million people and throw them out of the country. The idea that people like Donald Trump are referring to Latinos who come into this country as criminals and rapists is unacceptable, unacceptable.
This campaign is about not just electing a president. It is about transforming America…It’s not good enough to elect a president. What we need to do is to transform this country and no president can do it alone. We need to be working together. We need to raise political consciousness. We need to have an understanding about what’s going on in Washington politically in a way that we have not had for a very, very long time.
But here is the bottom line. The bottom line is we are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. We are a country in the last 30 years that have seen a massive transfer of wealth away from the middle class to the top 0.1%.
I believe that if we stand together, if we do not allow the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up if we are Latino or if we are Muslim but if we stand together, there is nothing, nothing, nothing that we cannot accomplish.
Please don’t tell me that the United States of America our great country cannot guarantee health care to all people as a right.
Don’t tell me that we cannot make certain that all of our young people regardless of the income of their families are able to get a college education if they have the ability to do so.
And don’t tell me we can’t train carpenters and plumbers and sheet metal workers who need that training to get good jobs.
Don’t tell me that we have to have more income and wealth inequality than other major country on Earth at the same time as we have more childhood poverty than any other country on Earth.
Don’t tell me that we have to maintain a crumbling infrastructure.
Don’t tell me that we cannot address the fact that the wealthiest people in this country often pay an effective tax rate lower than what you pay.
When we stand together, there is nothing we cannot accomplish. That is what this campaign is about and that is what a Sanders administration is about.
Thank you all very much.

…Nine months ago, we came to this beautiful state. We had no political organization. We had no money. We had no name recognition. And we were taking on the most powerful political organization in the United States of America.
And tonight, while the results are still not known, it looks like we are in a virtual tie.
And while the results are still not complete, it looks like we’ll have about half of the Iowa delegates.
I want to take this opportunity to congratulate Secretary Clinton…and her organization for waging a very vigorous campaign.
And I want to thank Gov. O’Malley. It’s never easy to lose. I’ve lost more than one campaign. But he should know that he contributed a whole lot to the dialogue, that he ran an issue-oriented campaign, and he won the respect of the American people.
As I think about what happened tonight, I think the people of Iowa have sent a very profound message to the political establishment, to the economic establishment, and by the way, to the media establishment.
That is given the enormous crises facing our country, it is just too late for establishment politics and establishment economics.
What the American people have said – and by the way, I hear this not just from progressives; I hear it from conservatives; I hear it from moderates – and that is we can no longer continue to have a corrupt campaign finance system.
I am the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that capacity not only have I worked hard to try to protect the interests of our veterans, I have the privilege of meeting so many men and women who put their lives on the line to defend us and to protect our way of life. And what they were protecting is an American democracy of one person, one vote, not billionaires buying elections.

I am overwhelmed and I am moved by the fact that millions of people throughout this country have helped volunteer in our country.
That we have received in this campaign 3.5 million individual contributions. People who went to BernieSanders.com. And you know what the average contribution was? It was $27.
We do not represent the interests of the billionaire class, Wall Street, or corporate America. We don’t want their money.
And I am very proud to tell you that we are the only candidate on the Democratic side without a super PAC.
And the reason that we have done so well here in Iowa, the reason I believe we’re going to so well in New Hampshire and in the other states that follow, the reason is the American people are saying no to a rigged economy. They no longer want to see an economy in which the average American works longer hours for lower wages while almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
What the American people understand was based and is based on fairness – on fairness.
It is not fair when the top 0.1% today owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It is not fair when the 20 wealthiest people in this country own more wealth than the bottom half of America.

So are you guys ready for a radical idea?
Well, so is America.
And that radical idea is we are going to create an economy that works for working families, not just the billionaire class.
And yes, when millions of our people are working for starvation wages, we are going to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
And yes, we are going to have pay equity for women.
Now, I’ve been all over this beautiful state of Iowa. We have spoken to some 70,000 people. And in meeting after meeting, I hear people standing up and they say, “Bernie, I went to college. I graduated college. Now I am $60,000, $80,000, $90,000 in debt.” That is crazy. That is crazy. People should not be punished financially because they want to get a decent education.
And that is why I believe that in year 2016 public colleges and universities should be tuition free.
And then my critics say, “Well, Bernie, that’s a great idea. All this free stuff. How are you going to pay for it?”
I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it. We’re going to impose a tax on Wall Street speculation.
The greed, the recklessness, and the illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this economy to its knees. The American people bailed out Wall Street. Now it’s Wall Street’s time to help the middle class.
And when we talk about transforming America, we will end the disgrace of having more people in jail than any other country – disproportionately African-American and Latino.
What we are going to do is provide jobs and education for our kids, not more jails and incarceration.
And I’ll tell you something that really does astound me. I’m on the Senate Energy Committee. I’m on the Senate Environmental Committee. I have talked to scientists all over the world. The debate is over. Climate change is real. And we have a moral responsibility to work with countries throughout the world to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.

And what amazes me – what totally amazes me – is that we have not one Republican candidate for president prepared to come up and tell us and agree with what virtually all scientists agree with.
And you know why they are not prepared to do that?
Because on the day that they do acknowledge the reality of climate change and call for change, you know what happens? They’re going to lose their campaign funds from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry.
So I say to the Republicans, “Stop worrying about your campaign funds from Big Oil or the Koch brothers or the coal industry. Worry about the planet you’re going to be leaving your children and your grandchildren.”
Now, I have been criticized during this campaign for many, many things. Every single day. That’s okay. That’s okay.
But let me repeat what I believe. I believe that at a time when every major on Earth guarantees health care to people as a right that I believe that we should do the same in the United States of America.
So for all of my critics out there – the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post and in corporate America, wherever you may be, let me tell you straight up. Yes, I believe that health care is a right, not a privilege.
And that is why I believe in a Medicare-for-all single-payer program which will not only guarantee health care to all, it will not only end the pharmaceutical rip-off of the American people, but it will save the middle family – the average middle class family – thousands of dollars a year in health care costs.

Let me conclude by saying what no other candidate for president will tell you. And that is that no president, not Bernie Sanders, not anybody else, will be able to bring about the changes that the working families and the middle class of this country, that the children, that the seniors – our seniors deserve.
No one president can do it because the powers that be – Wall Street with their endless supply of money, corporate America, the large campaign donors – are so powerful that no president can do what has to be done alone.
And that is why what Iowa has begun tonight is a political revolution – a political revolution that says when millions of people come together including those who have given up on the political process – they’re so dismayed and so frustrated with what goes on in Washington, with young people who before have never been involved in the political process – when young people and working people and seniors begin to stand up and say loudly and clearly “Enough is enough!”
That our government – the government of our great country belongs to all of us and not just a handful of billionaires.
When that happens, we will transform this country.
Thank you all very much!

Thank you! Thank you very much! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you, Nevada, for the extraordinary support that we have received today.
You know, five weeks ago we were 25 points behind in the polls. We have made some real progress.
A little while ago, I called up Secretary Clinton and congratulated her and her staff with a victory here in Nevada. They ran a very aggressive, effective campaign, and I applaud them for their efforts.
What this entire campaign has been about is the issue of momentum, is the issue of bringing more and more people into the political process.
When we began in Iowa, we were 50 points behind. When we began in New Hampshire, we were 30 points behind. And we were way behind here in Nevada.
But what I think is happening is that as people hear our message – and it’s a tough message because it speaks to the truth of an American society today that a lot of people just don’t want to address and that is the fact that we have a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy and must be changed.
We will not allow billionaires and their Super PACs to continue to buy elections in the United States of America.
And the American people are catching on that we have a rigged economy. Ordinary people, working people working two or three jobs longer and longer hours and almost all new income going to the top 1%.
And together, we are going to create an economy that works for all of us and not just the top 1%.
The American people are catching on that we have a broken criminal justice system – a system which says today that some kid in Nevada or Vermont that gets picked up with some marijuana that kid will have a police record staying with him his entire life.

But if you are a Wall Street executive and your illegal behavior destroys the economy and the lives of millions of people, somehow nothing happens to you.
And our job is to bring justice back to the criminal justice system.
I want to thank all of our supporters here in Nevada.
I want to thank our thousands of volunteers including many of you who are working tirelessly.
I want to thank our staff for the great job that they have done.
I am especially proud that here in Nevada and we’re seeing this all over this country we are bringing working people and young people into the political process in a way we have not seen for a very long time.
In a short while, I’ll be on a plane to South Carolina and then we’re going to be competing in 11 states all across this country on Super Tuesday.
And I believe that on Super Tuesday, we have got an excellent chance to win many of those states.
What I also know that on Super Tuesday and before, we are going to be taking on a very powerful and well-funded Super PAC, a Super PAC that receives a significant amount of money from Wall Street and wealthy special interests.
So as we head to Super Tuesday, we would very much appreciate the support of the American people who have been so kind and generous. We have received at this point over 3.7 million individual contributions. And if people want to help us out, they can do that at BernieSanders.com.
Lastly, as I think everyone knows, taking on the establishment – whether it is the financial establishment, whether it is the political establishment, whether it is the media establishment – is not easy.
We have come a very long way in nine months. It is clear to me and I think most observers that the wind is at our backs. We have the momentum.
And I believe – I believe that when Democrats assemble in Philadelphia in July at that convention, we are going to see the results of one of the great political upsets in the history of the United States.
So Nevada, our volunteers, our supporters, our staff, thank you all very much. And now it’s on to Super Tuesday. Thank you!

…Thank you, Greenville! Let me thank Garrett McDaniel for his very kind words.
Let me thank Ben Jealous. Ben, as you know, is the former head of the NAACP, one of the great civil rights leaders in our country today.
Let me thank Danny Glover. You know, you all know Danny Glover is one of America’s great actors and he is that. But unlike many other people who have achieved celebrity status, what Danny has done is use that celebrity status in the fight for racial and economic justice in our country and I thank him for all that he’s done.
On Saturday, South Carolina has the opportunity to make American history and I hope you will.
You know, we go around once, we may as well make history as we go around. We may as well do something that people will remember decades from today.
This campaign has taken on the economic establishment, all of the big money interests, and let me tell you Wall Street is getting nervous. And let me also tell you they should be getting nervous. We have taken on the political establishment. We have taken on the media establishment, and we are gaining momentum everyday.
We are gaining momentum because the American people are tired of the same old, same old establishment politics and establishment economics.
And what the American people are demanding is a government which represents all of us, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
This campaign is gaining momentum because we are listening to the American people and we are listening in ways that other campaigns don’t.
We are listening to the millions of workers in this country who are making $9 or $10 an hour and they can’t make it on $9 or $10 an hour.

We are listening to the elderly women in South Carolina and in Vermont who are trying to get by on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security, and you know what? They can’t get by on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security.
And we are listening to the young people across this country, many of whom are here tonight, and many of whom are being crushed by $30,000 or $50,000 or $100,000 in student debt. And they are asking us why do they have to be punished for decades paying off that debt for the crime of wanting to get an education.
We are listening to women who are tired of earning 79 cents on the dollar compared to men and then find it impossible to come up with affordable quality child care for their children.
And as Ben and Danny Glover just mentioned, we are listening to the African-American community who understand that we have a criminal justice system which is broken and today has more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
You’re right. You’re right. We have 2.2 million people in jail. We spend $80 billion a year locking up fellow Americans. That is something we must be ashamed of and we will change.
When this campaign began about 9.5 months ago, we were regarded by the media as a fringe campaign.
Now what the media said is “Bernie, you comb your hair really nice. You got a real GQ look.”
And I want to make public now. This is actually a new sports jacket. I just bought it the other day.
But despite all of those attributes, what the pundits said is, “You’re not going to go very far for one reason and that is that in this day and age to run for the president of the United States, you need to raise hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars.”
And what the pundits said is that, “The only way that you can raise that kind of money is to establish a Super PAC and beg millionaires -“ This is a smart audience. I like these guys. All right.
As you know, what a Super PAC is about is millionaires and billionaires and Wall Street pouring huge amounts of money into the political process. Well, we decided from Day 1 that we were not going to have a Super PAC because we don’t represent billionaires and millionaires.

But it’s easy to be very noble and courageous; it’s another thing to raise the money that you need.
So what we did is we basically reached out to the middle class and working families of this country and we said, “If you want a campaign which is going to fight for real change in this country, help us out a little bit. We know you’re hurting. Help us out – $20, $50.”
And you know what happened? One of the most amazing things that has happened in a very long time in American politics and that is over the last nine months, what we have seen is that our campaign has received four million individual campaign contributions. That is more campaign contributions than any campaign in the history of America at this point in a campaign.
And you all know what the average contribution has been? I’ll tell you these guys are really smart. $27!
To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln, this is a campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people.
When we began this campaign, we were 50 points down in Iowa, we were 30 points down in New Hampshire, and just about five weeks ago, we were 25 points down in Nevada. A lot has changed in the last few months.
This is a campaign that has the momentum, and we have the momentum not only in the Democratic primary process. If you look at national polls and you want a candidate who is going to defeat Donald Trump, you’re looking at that candidate. And there would be nothing that would give me greater pleasure than in fact beating Donald Trump and beating him badly.
Now everybody here understand that throughout our country’s history real change only takes place from the bottom on up, never from the top on down. The people who make the changes in the deepest sense are not presidents, are not Supreme Court justices; they are you. They are you. Because what history has always been about is people finding themselves in a moment in history in which they look around them and they say, “The status quo is not good enough. We need real change. We are at that moment in American history today.”

125 years ago, when workers had no rights, they were forced to work outrageous hours, they could be fired for any reason, working people stood up. They said, “You know what? We’re not animals. We’re not chattel. We’re going form a union and we’re going to bargain collectively. We’re going to stand up for our rights.” And that’s the origin of the union movement in this country.
And 150 or 200 years ago, whenever, African-Americans and their white allies said, “Racism and sexism and bigotry is not what this country is supposed to be about.” And against all odds, they stood up and they fought back. They said that that is not what America is supposed to be about.
And way back when women said, “You know what? We are tired of being second class citizens.” Sometimes we forget that 100 years ago to date women didn’t have the right to vote. Women didn’t have property rights. Women couldn’t go to medical school. Women couldn’t go to law school. Women couldn’t do what they wanted to do. But women and their male allies stood up and said, “Sorry, that’s not what America is about. We’re going to fight for change.”
And not so many years ago, 10 years ago, if we were in this room, and somebody stood up and said, “You know, I think in America our gay brothers and sisters will have the right to be married in 50 states in America”, the person next to him would have said, “What are you smoking?” Which raises another issue.
So the important point to be made is that the only change takes place is when millions of people stand up and say, “Enough is enough. America can be much better than where we are today.”
And the reason that our campaign is gaining such momentum is frankly we are treating the American people as intelligent human beings who are prepared to hear some harsh truths about our country. Now, I can give you a wonderful speech, make it all pleasant, happy, and funny, but that’s not the world that we are living in.
What I have always believed is that if you do not face up to the difficult problems, if you try to sweep them under the rug, you’re going to go nowhere in a hurry.
So what this campaign is talking about is the unpleasant reality that we live today with a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy.
What democracy is about is you have an idea, I have an idea, and we disagree and we argue over it. But at the end of the day, whether you’re rich or you’re poor, you get one vote and I get one vote. Democracy is not about billionaires buying elections.

And what connects a corrupt campaign finance system is the fact that we are living in a rigged economy. And what that means, as all of you know, is the average American is working longer and longer hours for lower wages while almost all new wealth and income goes to the top 1%. That’s a rigged economy.
And we are also living under a broken criminal justice system. And what that means is that if some kid in South Carolina or Vermont gets picked up today for possessing marijuana, that kid will receive a police record and that record will be carried with that person for the rest of his life.
But if you are an executive on Wall Street whose illegal behavior forced this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, you do not get a police record; you get an increase in your salary.
What this campaign is about is saying that it is wrong, it is un-America, it is unsustainable when the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%, that it is wrong that the 20 wealthiest people in this country now own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million people.
Now when we talk about a rigged economy, let me give you just one example of what that means. Turns out that the wealthiest family in America today is the Walton family who owns Walmart. Now, I know that in South Carolina and many parts of the country, you hear a whole lot about welfare abuse, about people ripping off the welfare system. Right? Well, let me inform you about who the major recipient of welfare in America happens to be the Walton family, the wealthiest family in America.
Now why is that? And the reason is that Walmart, owned by Walton family, pays wages that are so low that many of their employees are forced to go on Medicaid, food stamps, and subsidized housing. And do you know who pays for the food stamps, the subsidized housing, and the Medicaid? You do. So on behalf of the Walton family, the wealthiest family in America, I want to thank all of you for helping them out. They are down to their last $60 billion and they very much appreciate your helping them out.
But in all seriousness, I say to the Walton family and all those corporations that are paying working workers subsistence wages, “Get off of welfare. Pay your workers a living wage.”

And when we talk about wages, let’s lay it out on the table and the fact is that the federal minimum wage, which also exists in many, many states of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage. You can do the arithmetic as well as I can. You can multiply $8, $9, $10 an hour, 40 hours, 50 weeks a year, and you end up with a sum that nobody can live on.
And that is why together that is why we are going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour – over the next few years.
And when we talk about inequitable and unfair wages, I hope every man in this room will stand with the women and demand pay equity for women workers.
Now every month, the federal government comes out with a report on unemployment and what you see in the front pages tells you officially unemployment in America is 5%. That’s right.
The truth is that real unemployment, including those who have given up looking for work or who are working part-time when they want to work full-time is close to 10%.
And youth unemployment for kids who graduated high school is off the charts. For white kids, 33%, Latino kids 36%, African-American kids 51%.
Now if anybody thinks there is not a connection between high rates of youth unemployment and the fact that we have more people in jail than in any other country, you would be mistaken. You would be mistaken.
So here is a radical idea. You ready for a radical idea?
As a nation, we are going to invest in jobs and education, not jails or incarceration.
What this campaign is about is thinking big, thinking outside of the box. And one way we have got to think outside of the box is to end this disgrace of mass incarceration in America.
When we talk about what’s going on in this country, I hope all of you are listening to my Republican colleagues, and the good news is I guess they have departed from South Carolina.
But you have listened to them and if you hear them talking about family values – that’s right – I want everybody to be clear about what they mean because this is not laughing stuff. What they mean is that every woman in this arena, every woman in this state, every woman in this country should not have the right to control her own body; I disagree.
What they mean is that the federal government should de-fund Planned Parenthood; I believe we should expand Planned Parenthood.
What they believe in family values is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to get married; I disagree.
Let me tell you about what real family value means.

Today in South Carolina, today in Vermont, women are having beautiful babies. Big day for the parents; pretty big day for the baby.
But here is the point – here is the point – if that woman in South Carolina is working class or low-income, if that woman in Vermont is low-income or working class, what happens a week or two after she has that baby? That’s right. What happens is she is forced to be separated from that beautiful baby and go back to work to earn enough income to take care of her family. That’s right. That is not a family value. That is the opposite of a family value.
Now, it turns out that all over the world, not only in every industrialized nation but in many poor countries, when women have a baby, they are guaranteed paid family and medical leave.
Now, if virtually every other country on Earth can do it, so can we. We’re going to pass legislation providing three months paid family and medical leave.
When we talk about the economy and when we talk about high unemployment, it is clear to me that we need a massive federal jobs program to put Americans back to work.
We should be hiring teachers, not firing teachers.
I was in Detroit, Michigan last week and I talked to some people from Flint, Michigan, and what I heard from those people was probably the most depressing and distressing stories that I’ve heard in my political life, and I won’t even go into all of the details about what is happening in that community because it is so horrific, so unbelievable that it could be happening in America in the year 2016, it is just impossible to believe.
But the point that I want to make is that our infrastructure, our water systems, not just in Flint but all over this country – wastewater plants, roads, bridges, levies, dams, rail, airports – in many parts of this country, that infrastructure is collapsing.
And that is why I believe we should invest heavily in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, creating millions of jobs.
When we talk about what goes on in America, it is important to talk about the elephant in the room that many people choose not to talk about and that is the greed, the recklessness, and the illegal behavior on Wall Street.
When the U.S. Congress against my vote bailed out Wall Street, they did so because of the fear that the big banks were too big to fail.
It turns out that today, three out of the four largest banks are bigger now than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail. Turns out that the six largest banks of America have assets equivalent to 56% of the GDP in America, they issue two thirds of the credit cards, one third of the mortgages.
In my view, when you have a handful of financial entities so big, so powerful, so politically connected, what we must do is break them up.

Six years ago, the Supreme Court rendered one of the worst decisions in the history of the United States of America, and what they said to the billionaires and Wall Street and corporate America, “You already own much of the economy. Now we’re going to give you the opportunity to buy the United States government” and that is precisely what they are trying to do right now.
One family, the Koch brothers, and a few of their billionaire friends – you are familiar with the Koch brothers. They will be spending in this campaign cycle $900 million. So here’s the story: You get one vote. They get one vote. But on top of that, they get $900 to spend. That is not the democracy; that is oligarchy, and we are going to stop that.
Everybody in America understands that for us to be successful as a nation, as an economy, we need the best educated workforce in the world.
And 30 or 40 years ago, we had the best educated workforce in the world. Not today.
Today, we have hundreds of thousands of bright young people did well in high school, wanting to go to college, unable to do so for one reason – their families lack the money.
That is unfair to those young people. It is unfair to the future of our country, and that is why I believe that in the year 2016 when we talk about public education, we’ve got to be talking about making public colleges and universities tuition-free.
I’m told that this is a radical idea. I don’t believe it. Talk to the people in Germany. Talk to the people in Scandinavia. Talk to your grandparents who in this country 50 years ago could go to major universities virtually tuition free.
And then the other part of that equation that we have to deal with is the incredibly oppressive burden of student debt that is resting on the shoulders of millions of Americans.
Anybody here dealing with student debt? I rest my case. What kind of debt are we talking about?
$50,000? How much? $85,000? $200,000? This is like a Vermont auction except – the young woman here, raise your hand. All right, she is $200,000 in debt? Her brother is $200,000 in debt.
Now, when you engage in this campaign, it’s important to take a deep breath and understand that in many instances the status quo does not make sense. People who want nothing more in life than to get as good an education as they can should not end up $200,000 in debt.

I talked to a guy – and I raise this issue in every speech that I give – I talked to a guy in Nevada a few years ago, 55 years of age. He’s been paying off his student debt for 25 years. He is more in debt today than he was when he took the loan out. And he is worried that when he gets Social Security they are going to garnish his Social Security to pay his student loans. This is crazy. This is crazy stuff.
What we want is a nation which encourages people to get all the education they need, not punishes people.
That is why we have introduced legislation that allows people with student debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Now, I have been criticized like about 12 times a day for being too ambitious. “Bernie, these are great ideas but in America we just can’t afford it. We can’t do what Germany does or Scandinavia. We just can’t allow our young people to go to public colleges and universities tuition free. We can’t lower student debt. It is just impossible. It is too expensive.”
And then people say, “Well, Bernie, how are you going to pay for it?” And I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it. We pay for it through a tax on Wall Street speculation.
…Please remember this that when Wall Street’s greed and illegal behavior nearly destroyed our economy, they went to Congress for a bailout, which they got. Now, it is Wall Street’s turn to help the middle class of this country.
Now, I know that here in South Carolina, you have a state run by pretty conservative people, and I know that many conservatives refuse to accept science with regard to climate change.
I am member of the Senate Committee on the Environment and the Senate Committee on Energy, and I have talked to scientists all over this country and all over the world. So let me tell you in South Carolina regardless of what your leaders may tell you: Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already doing devastating harm in this country and around the world. That is the fact.
And let me tell you something else in terms of what scientists tell us. They say if we do not get our act together in a very short window of opportunity, this planet by the end of this century is going to be 5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit warmer – more droughts, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels, more international conflict as people fight over limited natural resources.
And let me tell you this as well. The reason that Republicans refuse to recognize the scientists is not because they’re dumb, not because they can’t read science. The reason has everything to do with a corrupt campaign finance system.

If a Republican candidate for president came up here and told you what I just told you that climate change is real, caused by human activity, on that day that candidate would lose his funding from the fossil fuel industry, the Koch brothers, the coal companies and all of that.
And I say to my Republican colleagues, worry less about your campaign funds, worry more about your grandchildren and your great grandchildren.
In America, we have, as you all know, pass the Affordable Care Act, which has done a lot of good things for our people, and I’m on the committee that help write that.
The Affordable Care Act has eliminated this private insurance company obscenity of pre-existing conditions. We have done away with discrimination against women who were forced to pay higher premiums than men. We have added some 17 million plus people to the ranks of the insured.
And let me say if I may, not that I want to be involved in local politics here, it is incomprehensible to me that when we passed in Congress the Affordable Care Act to expand Medicaid in every state of this country that the governor of South Carolina [Nikki Haley] rejected that proposal. We do not know – nobody will ever know – how many people will die or get much sicker than they should have because they did not have the Medicaid that the Congress provided for them. And I would hope – I would hope – that the Republican leadership here would get beyond right wing political ideology and serve the needs of the people of this state.
Now, my view is that while the Affordable Care Act has done some very good things, we have got to do better.
So let me stand before you and tell you what I believe and that is I believe that health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
I believe that it’s wrong that we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, that 29 million Americans have no health insurance and many of you are under-insured with high deductibles and co-payments. And that is why I believe in a Medicare for all single payer program.
When we talk about this country and what the issues are that we’ve got to address, let us be clear and that is that no American – black, Latino, or white – should be fearful of walking down the street and getting shot by a police officer.
Now, I have served as the mayor of the largest city in Vermont and I’ve worked very hard with police officers. I believe the vast majority of police officers are honest and hardworking and have to do a very, very difficult job. But when a police officer breaks the law, like any other public official, that officer must be held accountable.
I believe that we must de-militarize local police departments so they don’t look like occupying armies. I believe we need to make police departments look like the communities they serve.

In my state of Vermont and in many parts of this country, we have a very – dare I say – huge problem with substance abuse and overdoses regarding heroin. In my view, we have got to look at substance abuse and addiction as a health issue, not a criminal issue.
In the last 30 years in this country, millions of Americans have received criminal records as a result of the possession of marijuana.
And what that means is if you have a criminal record and you go in applying for a job, you know what? You may not get that job.
So what I believe is that when we have a federal Controlled Substance Act, which lists marijuana in a Schedule I level right alongside of heroin, that is dumb. So I believe that we should take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act, not make it a federal crime.
And by the way, where this becomes a racial issue is that it turns out that the black community and the white community smoke marijuana at about the same rates but blacks are four times more likely to be arrested than whites.
My friends, what this campaign is about is asking all of you to imagine what this country can be. In my view, we do not need to be a country which has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country at the same time we are seeing a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires.
We do not have to be a country where young people cannot afford to get a higher education while millions of others are being crushed by outrageous student debt.
We do not have to be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee paid family and medical leave or provide health care to all people as a right.
We do not have to be a country in which millions of our brothers and sisters work for $9, $10, $11 an hour and are going nowhere in a hurry.
But the only way we change America, it’s not just electing a president. Obviously I’m here to ask for your support. It is much more than that. It is to create a political revolution.
And what that revolution means is that you understand that you and you and you have the power to determine the future of America. That’s what people fought and died for, and that’s where we are today.
And if millions of Americans stand up and say, “You know what? In this great country we can be so much more. We don’t have to have a political system owned by billionaires. We don’t have to have a rigged economy. We don’t have to have a broken criminal justice system”, we – if we stand together – if we do not allow the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up by race and where we were born, if we stand together and demand that the United States government represents all of us, not just the 1%, there is nothing we cannot accomplish!
Thank you all very much!

It is good to be home!
You know, I have been all over this country but the truth is it is great and great to come home and see all my friends.
You know, we want to win in every part of the country. That goes without saying.
But it does say something and mean so much to me when people who know me best, the people who knew me before I was elected, who knew me as mayor, who knew me as congressman, and know me as senator have voted so strongly to put us in the White House. Thank you so much.
This campaign is, I think all of you know, this campaign is not just about electing a president; it is about transforming America.
It is about making our great country the nation that we know it has the potential to be.
It is about dealing with some unpleasant truth that exists in America today and having the guts to confront those truths.
It is about recognizing that in our state, we have town meetings and people come out and they argue about budgets and then they vote. One person, one vote.
In Vermont, billionaires do not buy town meetings and in America we are going to end a corrupt campaign finance system.
We can disagree in a democracy and that’s what a democracy is about. But I hope all of us agree that we’re going to not allow billionaires and their Super PACs to destroy American democracy.
In our state, in our state, you all know that we have many, many thousands of Vermonters who are working not just one job; they’re working two jobs; they’re working three jobs. And you all know that while our people are working so hard, almost all of the new wealth and income generated in America is going to the top 1%.

Well, together what we are going to do is create an economy that works for all of us, not just the people on top.
And together we are going to end and reform a broken criminal justice system.
This country, the wealthiest country in the history of the world, should not be having more people in jail than any other country on Earth. That’s wrong.
So we are going to invest for our young people in education, in jobs, not jails or incarceration.
Now, I know many of my Republican colleagues think that climate change is a hoax.
I believe that you don’t develop real public policy unless you listen to the science and the science is clear. Together, we are going to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
Now, I know that Secretary Clinton and many of the establishment people think that I am looking and thinking too big. I don’t think so.
So let me go on the record and say as you have heard me say for years health care is a right for all people.
And let me also say that in the United States of America when we talk about public education, it’s not just first grade through twelfth. That has got to be expanded to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
What I have said from day one in this campaign and I suspect many of you were down on the lake with me when we announced from that beautiful day – what I have said is that this campaign is not just about electing a president; it is about making a political revolution.
What that revolution is about is bringing millions of millions of people into the political process – working people who have been so disillusioned they no longer vote, young people who have never been involved.

What the political revolution is about is bringing our people together – black and white, Latino, Asian-American, gay and straight, people born in America, people who have immigrated to America.
When we bring our people together, when we do not allow the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up, when we bring our people and when we have the courage to stand up to the billionaire class and tell them they can’t have it all, that our government belongs to all of us, not just Super PACs and wealthy campaign contributors.
Well, tonight, you’re going to see a lot of election results come in and let me remind you of what the media often forgets about. This is not a general election. It’s not winner take all. If you get 52%, you get 48%, you roughly end up with the same amount of delegates in a state.
By the end of tonight, we are going to win many hundreds of delegates.
Ten months ago, as you know better than any other group in America, when we were out on the lake, we were at 3% in the polls. We have come a very long way in 10 months.
At the end of tonight, 15 states will have voted; 35 states remain.
And let me assure you that we are going to take our fight for economic justice, for social justice, for environmental sanity, for a world of peace to every one of those states.
Now Wall Street may be against us and the Super PACs may be against us. But you know why we are going to win? Because our message is resonating and the people when we stand together will be victorious.
So on a personal note, I want to thank all of you for the love and friendship you have given our family. You have sustained me.
And I am so proud to bring Vermont values all across this country.
So thank you again for helping us win here in Vermont tonight. And I look forward this evening to just saying hello to so many old friends. So thank you all very much!

…Phoenix, Phoenix, thank you!
This is a huge crowd! And this is a loud crowd!
Thank you. Thank you all very much for being here this evening.
…Phoenix, are you ready for a political revolution?
Are you tired of a handful of billionaires running our economy?
Well, if you are, you’ve come to the right place.
You know, what excites me so much as I go around the country is to see the incredible energy of hundreds of thousands of people who love this country but know we can do so much better.
We started this campaign at 3% in the national polls. We have come a long way in 10 months.
And the reason we have done as well as we have, the reason that we have defied all expectations is that we are doing something very radical in American politics – we’re telling the truth.
And the truth is not always pleasant. It’s not always what we want to hear. But we cannot go forward unless we deal with the realities of American society today and that is what we are going to do.
Truth number one is that today we have a corrupt campaign finance system with Wall Street and billionaires spending unlimited sums of money, which is undermining American democracy.
To my mind, democracy is not complicated. It is one person, one vote.

You want to vote for me – great. If you don’t, that’s okay. But what I do not want to see are billionaires spending unlimited sums of money buying elections and undermining the democracy, which has made our country so great.
And that is why together we are going to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision.
And that is why we are going to move to public funding of elections.
And that is why we are going to take on vigorously those cowardly Republican governors who are trying to suppress the vote.
And I say to those cowardly Republican governors, “If you are afraid of a free and fair election, get out of politics. Get another job.”
When in our country today we have the Koch brothers and a handful of other billionaires spending hundreds of millions of dollars to elect candidates who represent the wealthy and the powerful, that’s not democracy; that is oligarchy.
And the people of our country will not tolerate oligarchy.
But it is not just a corrupt campaign finance system. It is a rigged economy – an economy in which we have today a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality which is unsustainable and un-American.
Now, the Congress may not talk about it much. The media may not talk about it much, but it is unacceptable to me and the American people when the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It is unacceptable to me that the wealthiest 20 people own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million people.
I want to give you one idea – one example – of what a rigged economy is about.
Turns out that the wealthiest family in this country is the Walton family of Walmart.
Turns out that the wealthiest family in America who owns Walmart pay their workers wages that are so low that many of those workers have to go on Medicaid and food stamps in order to survive.
And what a rigged economy is about is that the middle class taxpayer pays more in taxes to subsidize the employees of the wealthiest family in America. That’s a rigged economy.

So I say to the Walton family, the wealthiest family in America, “Get off of welfare. Pay your workers a living wage.”
The United States of America today is the wealthiest country in the history of the world, but almost nobody knows that and the reason for that is we have people working two or three jobs. Mom is working. Dad is working. The kids are working. Marriages are stressed out. Parents don’t have time to spend with their kids.
And despite all of that, 58% of all new income generated goes to the top 1%.
You know what we are going to do together? We’re going to create an economy that works for all of us, not just for 1%.
And we are going to tell the billionaires and corporate America that they are going to have to start paying their fair share of taxes.
And when we talk about a rigged economy, we are going to end the absurdity of millions of our people working for $8, $9 an hour because you can’t make it on $8 and $9 an hour.
That is why we are going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour.
And when we talk about a rigged economy, we’re going to end the absurdity of women making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
And I know that every man in this room will stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
A few weeks ago, I was in Flint, Michigan. And what I observed there and what I heard there was literally beyond my comprehension and it shook me and upset me enormously.
And what I observed there is that children in that city were being poisoned by a water system that had very heavy amounts of lead in it.
It is incomprehensible that this is happening in the United States in the year 2016.
But it’s not just Flint. All across this country our infrastructure, our water systems, our wastewater plants, our bridges, our roads, our rail system is falling apart.
In the United States of America, we should have a first class infrastructure and that is what we’re going to build. We’re going to put $1 trillion into building our infrastructure and when we do that, we create 13 million decent-paying jobs.
What this campaign is about is asking the American people to think outside of the box, outside of the status quo, think about a nation not where our children are being poisoned by lead in the water but where we have a cutting-edge infrastructure in roads and in bridges and in rail and in air transport. That’s where we’ve got to go.

This campaign in terms of the rigged economy is telling corporate America that we are going to end these disastrous trade policies, which are destroying the middle class of this country.
No, you cannot continue to shut down plants in America and move to cheap labor countries all over the world.
All of us, all of us want to help poor people throughout the world. We can do it without destroying the American middle class through disastrous trade policies.
So I say to corporate America, “You want us to buy your products? Start manufacturing those products here in America, not in China.”
This campaign is about fixing a broken criminal justice system.
Once again, I ask you think outside of the box, outside of the status quo. America should not have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
We should not be spending $80 billion a year locking up 2.2 million Americans, disproportionately African-American, Latino, and Native Americans.
All over this country, we see very high rates of youth unemployment.
For white kids – 33%, for Latino kids – 36%, African-American kids – 51%.
What we will do is create jobs and education for those young people and not more jails and incarceration.
And we are going to create a criminal justice system where unarmed people, often minorities, are not shot by police officers.
Well, I have worked with police departments all over my state of Vermont and all over this country. The vast majority of police officers are honest, hardworking and they have a very difficult job.
But like any other public official, when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
We need to end the militarization of police departments. Police departments should not look like occupying armies; they should be part of the communities they serve.

We need to make police departments look like the diversity of the communities they serve.
In my state of Vermont, neighboring New Hampshire and all across this country, we have a major crisis in terms of heroin addiction and drug overdoses.
We need to address that issue of substance abuse and addiction as a health issue, not a criminal issue.
We need to re-think the so-called war on drugs.
Over the years, too many lives have been negatively impacted through arrests for possession of marijuana.
Right now at the federal level, marijuana is considered a Schedule I drug under the federal Controlled Substance Act right alongside of heroin.
Now, scientists disagree about the pluses and minuses of marijuana but all of you know heroin is a killer drug.
And that is why I have introduced legislation to take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act.
I want to just tell you a brief story – a brief story about what I mean when I talk about a rigged economy, a corrupt campaign finance system, and a broken criminal justice system. I want you to hear this.
Last month, Goldman Sachs, one of the large – you know Goldman Sachs. Okay. Goldman Sachs, one of the large financial institutions on Wall Street paid the federal government a settlement fine of $5 billion.
They paid that fine because they were selling worthless packages of subprime mortgage loans. Paid a $5 billion fine.
Now, all of you know that eight years ago this country was plunged into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. As a result of Wall Street greed and illegal behavior, we lost of millions of jobs. People lost their life savings. People lost their homes.
That took place because of the greed and illegal behavior on Wall Street.
Now, today, this is the broken criminal justice system. Today, some person in Arizona or Vermont gets picked up with a small amount of marijuana. That person has a police record for the rest of their lives.
But if you are a CEO or an executive on Wall Street whose illegal behavior destroyed the economy, you get a salary increase not a police record.

Now, what we have got to do – not going to be easy but we will do it – is we are going to restore justice to a broken criminal justice system.
What America is supposed to be about is justice – equal justice – under the law. You’re poor, you break the law, you’re rich, you break the law, you both pay the price. That is what we’re going to do.
This campaign is doing well because we are listening to the American people and not just wealthy campaign contributors.
I am very proud that our campaign does not have a Super PAC. We have received over 5 million individual campaign contributions.
Anyone know what the average contribution is? Try $27.
Now, my opponent raises money in a slightly different way. She has a Super PAC which among other special interests has received $15 million from Wall Street. She has received money from the drug companies and the fossil fuel industry.
She has given speeches on Wall Street for $225,000 a pop. Now, in my mind, if you’re going to give a speech for $225,000, it must be a really great speech. And if it’s such a great speech, all of America should be able to read it.
Our campaign is listening to senior citizens and disabled veterans.
And here is a principle – a bedrock principle of my campaign – and that is we will be judged as nation not by how many millionaires and billionaires we have but by how we treat the weakest and most vulnerable amongst us.
Now while we have seen in recent years a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires, we have millions of seniors and disabled vets trying to make it on $11,000, $12,000 a year Social Security. And you know what? Nobody can make it on $11,000, $12,000 a year Social Security.
My Republican colleagues in the Senate, they want to cut Social Security, and they want to give huge tax breaks to billionaires.
Well, I have some bad news for them. No, we are not going to cut Social Security; we’re going to increase Social Security.
No, we’re not going to give tax breaks to Donald Trump or the other billionaires. In fact, they’re going to start paying their fair share of taxes.

This campaign is listening to the Latino community. What the Latino community is telling me is they are tired of living in the shadows. They are tired of living in fear and being exploited. They want – I want – comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
My father came to this country at the age of 17 from Poland so I know a little bit about the immigrant experience.
And let me just say this we’ve got 11 million undocumented people in this country. If the Congress does not do its job, I will use the executive powers of the presidency to do it for them.
I do not want to see young people like Catherine [sp] look at the television and watch their parents arrested.
I do not want to see families broken up. The function of immigration reform is to unite families, not divide them.
And let me say this. I know that in our country not everybody agrees with my views on immigration reform, and that’s fine. We’re a democracy. People have different points of view.
But what is not acceptable no matter what your point of view is is to throw racist attacks against Mexicans.
The reason that Donald Trump will never be elected president is the American people will not accept insults to Mexicans, Muslims or women.
The American people will not accept a president who insults our veterans or who several years ago led the so-called birther effort which was an ugly, ugly attempt to undermine the legitimacy of the presidency of Barack Obama.
Now, you can agree with the president, you can disagree. That is democracy. But don’t tell me he is not the legitimate president of this country.

And when we talk about racism in America, I always find it interesting. President Obama’s father was born in Kenya. My father was born in Poland. But nobody asked me for my birth certificate.
And I kind of think maybe it has something to do with the fact that my skin color is a little bit different than the president’s.
I am a member of the Senate Committee on the Environment. I have talked to scientists all over the world. Climate change is real. It is caused by human activity.
And let me tell you what the scientists are telling us and that is if we do not get our act together in the very near future, we are not going to leave a planet for our kids and grandchildren which is healthy and that is unacceptable.
It is literally beyond belief that we have a major political party – the Republican Party – which rejects science, refuses to acknowledge even the reality of climate change.
But together we are going to take on the fossil fuel industry, transform our energy system.
We can create millions of good-paying jobs by moving to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
My Republican colleagues run all over the country talking about family values.
I want you to know what they mean by family values. What they mean is no woman in this room has the right to control her own body. I disagree.
What they mean by family values is that our gay brothers and sisters do not have the right to marry. I disagree.
Jane and I have been married for 27 years, and we believe in family. But when we talk about family values, what we mean is ending the embarrassment of the United States being the only major country on Earth not to provide paid family and medical leave.
Today in America, a woman here in Arizona or in my state of Vermont is giving birth and if that woman is a working class woman or a low-income woman, in all likelihood, she will have to go back to work in one week or two weeks, separating herself from her baby in order to earn income to take care of her family.
No mother should have to be separated from her baby because she lacks necessary income.
And that is why together we are going to pass three months paid family and medical leave.
One of the important jobs of a president of the United States is to conduct sane, effective foreign policy.
On the most important foreign policy of our time, the war in Iraq, I listened very closely to what President Bush and Cheney had to say. And I did not believe them and voted against that war.
Unfortunately, Secretary Clinton voted for that war when she was in the Senate.

And let me make this pledge to you: Yes, we will destroy ISIS but we will do it in a way that doesn’t involve our men and women in the military involved in – our men and women in the military will not be involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East.
Now, I have been criticized for saying this so let me say it again. I believe that human beings are entitled to certain inalienable rights. And we have a Constitution that grants us – and it’s a great document – a lot of political rights.
But I believe we have got to go further than that and I believe that we have got to guarantee our people economic rights.
Because I remember the great leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., when he led the great march on Washington in 1963 it was called the march for jobs and freedom. Jobs and freedom.
And when he died – you all remembered when he died – when he was assassinated, it wasn’t on a “civil rights” demonstration; he was standing up with exploited sanitation workers in Memphis, Tennessee.
And he understood and I agree that to be truly free, you need economic security as well.
Now, it turns out that every major country on Earth – Germany, United Kingdom, France, Holland, Scandinavia, Canada – every major country guarantees health care to all of its people.
If elected president, I will do my best to have the United States join the rest of the industrialized world – health care for all.
And what this campaign is about again is thinking outside of the status quo. You do not have to accept the status quo. We can do better.

Don’t let people tell you that you can’t think big.
Now, I’m a member of the committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act. It has done a lot of good things. We should be proud of that and proud of President Obama’s leadership on that.
But we still have 29 million Americans uninsured. Many of you are under-insured with large copayments and deductibles.
And all of us are getting ripped off without mercy by the greed of the pharmaceutical industry.
They are charging us by far the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. People are dying. People are dying in this country because they cannot afford the medicine they need. That is unacceptable.
And after all of that, after all of that, we end up spending far, far more per capita on health care than any other people.
That is why together, we must fight to make sure that we pass a Medicare for all health care system.
Now, I do not understand why if Canada can do it, the UK can do it, France can do it, all of these other countries can do it, we can’t do it.
And I want to give you another example of where as a nation we have got to think outside of the box.
For 100 plus years, we have had free public education in this country from first grade to 12th grade. The world has changed. The economy has changed. People today need more education.
The simple truth is that today in many respects a college degree is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago.
And that is why I believe we have got to make public colleges and universities tuition free.
This is not a radical idea. It exists in Germany, Scandinavia, other countries. If they can do it, we can do it.
And the other related issue we have got to deal with is the outrageous level of student debt in this country.
When you think about crazy, listen to this. We tell young people, “You’ve got to go out and get the best education that you can for yourselves, for your country.” And yet, millions of our people are $30,000, $50,000 in debt because they got an education. That’s crazy.
Now, I find it interesting that when Wall Street with their greed and illegal behavior crashed, Congress bailed them out. Now, I believe that we should impose a tax on Wall Street speculation and use that revenue to make public colleges and universities tuition free.

Everybody here understands one important historical fact and that is change – real change – never takes place from the top on down. It always takes place from the grassroots on up.
Workers 100 plus years ago said they would not be treated like animals and they struggled and went to jail and were beaten up in order to form unions and get collective bargaining. That’s how we fight for workers’ rights.
For hundreds of years, African-Americans and their white allies struggled together to end racism and bigotry and segregation in America.
Those changes did not take place from the top on down. It was blacks and whites standing together and saying we will not accept racism in the United States of America.
People forget but 100 years ago, women in America did not have the right to vote, could not get the education they wanted, could not do the jobs they wanted.
But what happened is that people looked around and they said, “Hey, in America, we will not accept women being treated as second class citizens. It’s going to change.”
If we were here seven years, 10 years ago, and somebody said, “You know what? I think gay marriage will be legal in every state in this country by 2015”, nobody would have believed it. But it happened and it happened because the gay community and their straight ally said that in America people have the right to love whoever they want.
If we were in this room five years ago, five years ago, and somebody jumped up and said, “You know, Bernie, I think this $7.25 minimum wage is a starvation wage. We’ve got to raise it to $15 an hour”, the person next to him would have said, “You’re nuts. You’re wanting to double the minimum wage. That’s crazy. Can’t happen.”
Well, you know what happened? Fast food workers at McDonald’s and Burger King went out on strike. They stood up and fought back and then you know what happened? Seattle – $15 an hour. San Francisco, Los Angeles, $15 an hour. Oregon, $15 an hour. And that $15 an hour movement is sweeping the country.

But here is my point. The most important point. Do not settle for the status quo when the status quo is broken.
Don’t tell me that we cannot have a political system in which we have one of the highest voter turnout rates in the world rather than one of the lowest.
Don’t tell me that we have to have the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world when we have a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires. We can change that.
Don’t tell me that veterans in this country have to sleep out on the street; we can change that.
Don’t tell me that in America we are the only – we have to be the only major country that does not guarantee health care or paid family leave to all of our people.
We can make real change. But we don’t make change if they divide us up.
What Trump is about and other demagogues have always been about is scapegoating minorities, turning one group against another group.
But we are too smart to fall for that.
So if we stand together as black and white and Latino and Asian-American and Native American, if we stand together as gay and straight, men and women, if we stand together as people born in America, people who have come to this country, if we stand together, there is nothing we cannot accomplish.
Next week, Arizona has a very important election. We will win! We will win if the voter turnout is high. Let’s make it high!
Thank you all very much!

As I look around here, I see a lot of energy, a lot of beauty, I see a lot of enthusiasm.
And I see a lot of people who want to transform the United States of America.
We began this campaign about 10 months ago. When we began, we were at 3% in the polls, about 70 points behind Secretary Clinton.
We had no money, we had no political organization, and we didn’t have much name recognition.
In the last – but in the last 10 months a lot has changed.
And the reason, I think that we are doing so well, that we have so much energy.  That in state after state, we win people 45 years of age or younger – the future of America!
A report just came out yesterday and it said Bernie Sanders has received more votes from people under 30 than Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump combined.
And I get my inspiration, I get my energy from you. I get my energy and inspiration from people who have an idealism, who want to transform this country and make it a lot better than it is today.
Now, the reason I believe we have so much energy and we’re doing so well is because we’re doing something very unusual in American politics: We are telling the truth.
As you all know, the truth is not always pleasant. Sometimes it’s harsh. Sometimes it’s hurtful. But unless we understand the reality in front of us and not shove it under the rug, unless we are prepare to deal with that reality, there is no hope for change.
And here is some of that reality.
Number one, today we live in a county in which our campaign finance system is corrupt and it is undermining American democracy.
And this is no small thing. The concept of democracy is not complicated.
What it means is – you have one vote, and you have one vote, and you have one vote.
What it does not mean is that people with unlimited amounts of money should be able to buy elections…
It does not mean that billionaires like the Koch brothers and others should be able to spend $900 million in this campaign cycle to buy politicians who will represent the rich and the powerful. That is not democracy; that is oligarchy.

And together, we are going to stand firm. This country will not become an oligarchic society.
But it is not just a corrupt campaign finances which is undermining our democracy.
What we are seeing now all over this country are cowardly Republican governors trying to suppress the vote.
As a nation, we have one of the lowest voter turnout rates of any major country on earth.
Our job is to increase voter turnout, make it easier for people to participate.
And yet today, we have Republican governors who are trying in every way imaginable to make it harder for poor people, for people of color, for young people, for old people to participate.
And I say to those cowardly governors, “If you don’t have the guts to participate in free and fair elections, get another job!”
And if elected president, you can bet your bottom that we’re going to have a Department of Justice which will vigorously take on every one of these governors.
What I want to see in this country is something simple and straightforward, and that is if you are 18 years of age or older you are registered to vote, end of discussion.
But in addition to the fact that we have a corrupt campaign finance system, there is something else that we have got to address and address in a very straightforward way and that is that we have a rigged economy.
Now, the television stations and the corporate media do not deal with this issue very much. But let me tell you what a rigged economy is about.
What a rigged means is that today the top one tenth of one percent now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It means that the 20 wealthiest people in this country now own more wealth than the bottom 150 million half of our country.
And let me give you another example of what a rigged economy is about.
Turns out that the wealthiest family in this country is the Walton family, who owns Walmart.
As many of you know, Walmart pays wages that are so low that many of its workers are forced to go on Medicaid, food stamps, subsidized housing.
What a rigged economy is about is when working people have got to pay more in taxes to provide food stamps for the employees of the wealthiest family in America.

That is a rigged economy, and I say to the Walton family, “Get off of welfare. Pay your workers a living wage.”
And here is another truth that we cannot continue to avoid.
In this country today, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
And I understand that in your state incarceration is a very big and profitable business.
Well, we are going to end that in a number of ways.
Number one – number one – we are going to do away with private prisons, private detention centers.
It is unconscionable that corporations are making money by locking people up. That’s wrong.
Number two, we are going to do our best to make sure that when young people in this country can’t find a job or can’t stay in school, we’re going to invest education, not jails and incarceration.
I want this country, and what this campaign is about is thinking outside of the box. Do not allow the media or anybody else to define for you what is possible. You do that.
And what is possible is having the best educated country in the world, not the country with more people in jail.
And together we are going to demilitarize local police departments.
Police departments should not look like occupying armies. They should be part of the community, not oppressing the community.
We are going to make police departments look like the diversity of the communities they serve.
All of us are tired of looking at TV and seeing images of unarmed people being shot by police officers.
I have been the former mayor of Burlington, Vermont, and I have worked with police departments for many, many years, and the vast majority of police officers are honest, hard-working and they have a very difficult job.
But like any other public official, when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
And a President Sanders Justice Department will investigate every death that takes place in police custody or during apprehension.

Criminal justice reform means that we have to take a hard look at the failed war on drugs.
Over the last 30 years, millions of Americans have received police records for possession of marijuana. And if you have a police record, it is sometimes very hard to get a job.
Right now under the federal Controlled Substances Act, marijuana is listed as a Schedule I drug alongside heroin.
Now everybody here knows that heroin is a killer drug.
Scientists can argue about the pluses and minuses of marijuana but marijuana is not heroin.
That is why I have introduced legislation to take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substances Act.
As all of you know, the decision about whether or not marijuana becomes legalized is a state decision and not a federal decision.
But I believe that possession of marijuana should not be a federal crime.
And when we talk about drugs and the danger of drugs in my state of Vermont, nearby New Hampshire, and in states all over this country, we are facing an epidemic and a crisis of heroin addiction, of opioid addiction, of people dying everyday from overdoses.
In my view, we have got to treat substance abuse not as a criminal issue but a health issue.
We need a revolution in mental health care in this country.
When people are struggling with a mental health crisis or with addiction, they should be able to get the treatment they need today, not six months from today.
Now let me just take a moment, all of you know that I’m running against Secretary Hillary Clinton.
Let me just take a moment to explain or express to you some of the strong differences that we have on important issues.
First, when I began this campaign, we had no money. We had to make a very important decision. Should we establish a Super PAC?
Well, we agreed with you.
This campaign does not represent the interests of the billionaire class or Wall Street. We don’t want their money so we did it another way.
And what we did is we reached out to the middle class and working families, and what happened is literally mind blowing. I could never in a million years believe that this would happen. But as of today, we have received well over 5 million individual contributions.

That is more contributions than any candidate in the history of this country at this point in an election.
Anybody here know what the average contribution is? That’s right, $27.
Now this in itself is revolutionary because it shows that we can run a winning national campaign without being dependent on Wall Street and big money interests.
To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg, this is a campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people.
Now what that means when you’re not dependent on big money interest, you can do what is right for working people.
I don’t have to worry about some billionaire or Wall Street guy calling me up because we don’t have their money; we don’t want their money; we don’t need their money.
Now, Secretary Clinton has chosen to go another route in terms of how she raises money.
She has several Super PACs. The largest one recently reported that it has raised $25 million in special interest money – $15 million from Wall Street alone.
Now, as some of you may also know, Secretary Clinton has given speeches on Wall Street for $225,000 a speech.
Now what I have said is that if you’re going to be paid $225,000 for a speech, it must be an extraordinarily brilliant speech.  It must be a speech that could transform our country and the world.  It must be a Shakespearian-type speech, and if that speech is so great, let the American people see it.
Second issue, all of you know that foreign policy is a very important part of what a president does.
The most important foreign policy debate in the modern history of this country took place in 2002.
Now I listened very carefully to what President Bush and Vice President Cheney and all these guys had to say.
They were saying “We’ve got to invade Iraq. We’ve got to invade Iraq.  We’ve got to invade Iraq.”
I didn’t believe them, and I voted against that disastrous war.
Then Senator Clinton heard the same arguments, read the same information. She voted for that disastrous war.

When we talk about why the middle class of this country has been disappearing for 30 years, why many millions of workers today are working longer hours for lower wages, a lot of that has to do with horrific trade policies written by corporate America.
Since the year 2001, this country has lost 60,000 factories and millions of decent-paying jobs.
I have opposed every one of these trade agreements – NAFTA, CAFTA, [inaudible]…with China.
Secretary Clinton has supported virtually all of those corporately written trade agreements.
Now, one of the reasons that our campaign is doing so well is that we are not listening to big money campaign contributors; we are listening to the American people.
And this is what the American people are telling me.
If they are workers, they are saying they can’t make it on $8 or $9 or $10 an hour. They are tired of working, working, and working and not going anywhere.
And that is why we need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Now, I understand you have a governor here who is trying to make it harder to raise the minimum wage. That is exactly the wrong thing to do.
This campaign is listening to senior citizens and disabled veterans, and I know that Arizona has a whole lot of men and women who have put their lives on the line to defend us and we thank them all.
But here is the truth. No senior citizen or disabled vet can live on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security.
Unbelievably, we have Republicans in office who want to cut Social Security.
Well I’ve got bad news for them.  We’re not going to cut Social Security; we’re going to expand Social Security.
This campaign is listening to young people, and what young people are telling me is, “Bernie, we were told that it was the right thing to do to go to college or graduate school. You told us how important it is for us to get the best education we can.  Why is it that when we leave school, we are $30,000 or $50,000 in debt?”
Anybody here with student debt?  Unbelievable. Unbelievable.
Now I want you to think outside of the box again.  Think outside of the status quo.
You all know that we live in a very competitive global economy.  We need to have the best-educated workforce in the world.

And you all know that many of the new jobs being created today require a lot more education that the jobs of the past.
Now for a very long time when we thought about public education, what we talked about was first grade through twelfth grade. And that was great 50years ago.
But the world has changed, the economy has changed, technology has changed.
In my view, when we talk about public education today, what we’ve got to be talking about is making public colleges and universities tuition free.
This is not a radical idea. All right? The world has changed; our educational system has to change with it.
Other countries, and I know that you all know this, other countries – Germany, Scandinavia, they do that. They provide free college education because they know that investing in their young people is what will make their economy strong.
And the other issue is that millions of people, some young and some not so young, are really being crushed with high levels of student debt.
And what we have got to do is to say to those people, “You will be able to refinance that debt at the lowest interest rates you can find.”
Now I am criticized by the establishment, by my opponent, “Bernie this is a very expensive proposition. You want to have public colleges and universities tuition-free. You want to significantly lower student debt. That’s about $70 billion a year. That’s a lot of money. How are you going to pay for it?”
I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it. This is how we are going to pay for it.
Remember eight years ago when the greed and recklessness and the illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this economy into the worst economic downturn since the 1930’s, Congress bailed out Wall Street.
Well, it seems to me that now is the time to impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. The middle class of this country bailed out the crooks on Wall Street, now it is Wall Street’s time to help the middle class of this country.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the Latino community.
And what the Latino community is telling me is they are tired of 11 million people in this country who are undocumented, who are living in the shadows, who are living in fear, who are living with a great deal of exploitation.

And what the Latino community is telling me that now is the time for comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
In a democracy, people can agree or disagree with immigration reform or anything else.
But what people cannot do, what Donald Trump cannot do, is engage in bigotry, engage in vicious insults against our Mexican neighbors. That is not acceptable and we will not tolerate it.
And if Congress does not do its job, I will use the execute office and the powers of the presidency to do everything that I can to see that families are united, not separated.
And our Department of Justice will take a very hard look at what Sherriff Arpaio and people like him are doing.
I am the son of an immigrant. My father came from Poland. He came to this country not knowing one word of English so I have some experience with the immigrant family situation.
I am tired of seeing young people with tears running down their cheeks, worried that their parents or their brother or their sister will be deported. We’re going to put an end to deportations.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the Native American community.
There is no group of people in our country today who have contributed more to our culture, to our respect for the environment than have the Native American community.
And I don’t have to tell anybody here that from when the first days of when the settlers came to this continent they cheated the Native American people. They lied to the Native American people. They broke treaties with the Native American people.
And today, what we are seeing in community after community of Native Americans is outrageously high levels of unemployment, of poverty, of alcoholism, of suicide, of kids dropped out of high school.
It is time for the United States government to treat the native American tribes with respect and dignity. And that is what I will do as president of the United States.

I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment.
And let me tell you what virtually no Republican will tell you, and that is that the debate is over, climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity, and climate change is already causing devastating problems in this country and around the world.
And let me tell you what the scientists are also saying, and that is if we do not get our act together, if we do not transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy, a bad situation today will become a lot, lot worse.
What the scientists tell us, if we do not act boldly by the end of this century, this planet will be between 5 degrees to 10 degrees fahrenheit warmer. That is catastrophic.
And what that means is more drought, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more rising sea levels, more acidification of the oceans, and more international conflict as people fight for limited natural resources.
And that is why together – together – we are going to stand up to the fossil fuel industry and tell them that their short-term profits are not worth the future of this planet.
And by the way, while we are talking about environmental issues, we have got to end fracking.
There was a piece in the paper the other day, it’s not just Flint Michigan that is suffering from severe water problems, it is hundreds and hundreds of communities all over America. Fracking will make that situation worse and fracking.
I have been criticized by my opponents for saying this, so let me say it again.
And that is, health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
Now the Affordable Care Act has done some very good things, but we have a long way to go.
Today in America, 29 million Americans have no health insurance. Many of you are under-insured with high deductibles and co-payments. Is that right?
And everyone in this country is being ripped off by the greed of the drug companies.
Drug companies charge us the highest prices in the world for medicine, and the situation is so crazy that one out of five Americans cannot afford to fill prescriptions their doctors write. And that is crazy.
And on top of all of that, it turns out that we are spending far, far more per capita for health care than any other country on Earth.

And that is why, in my view, we have got to move toward a Medicare for all health care system.
Everybody here tonight knows that in our history as a nation, real change always takes place from the bottom on up not from the top on down.
Real change takes place when millions of people look around and say, “The status quo is not working. It has got to change.”
Change took place 100 years ago when workers were being treated as if they were animals said, “We are going to form a union whether the employer likes it or not.”
Real change takes place when over the last hundreds of years African-Americans and their white allies said, “Racism and segregation and bigotry is not what this country is about. We’re going to change it.”
A hundred years ago, women in America did not have the right to vote. But what women and their male allies said is that, “In America, women will not be treated as second class citizens.”
And by the way, what they said is that women will be able to control their own bodies.
Ten years ago, if there was somebody in this room who said jumped up and said, “You know, I think that gay marriage will be made legal in 50 states in this country by the year 2015”, the person next to him would have said, “What are you smoking?”
Which raises a whole other issue but what happened?
What happened is the gay community against ferocious hatred and their straight allies, what they said is that, “In America, people should be allowed to love each other no matter what their gender is.”
That is how change takes place.
And we are at that profound and pivotal moment in American history today where millions of people are looking around them and they’re saying, “Is it right that so few have so much and so many have so little?
“Is it right that the United States of America, this great country, is the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all or paid family and medical leave?
“Is it right that when we have seen in recent years a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires that we have today the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth?
“Is it right that in this nation, the men and women who defended us, our veterans, some of them are sleeping out on the streets?”
So what the American people are saying is, “We can do much better.”
And what the American people, by the millions are understanding is you’re not going to do much better if we go back to the same old, same old establishment politics and establishment economics.
Now, I am the only candidate for president who will tell you this truth and it’s not a happy truth but it is the truth.
And that is no president, not Bernie Sanders or anyone else can do it alone.
We need the people who have the power in this country and that is Wall Street, who has endless amounts of money, Corporate America whose greed has done us so much damage, the corporate media which determines what we see, hear or read, wealthy campaign contributors, they have enormous power.
The only way that we transform this country and take them on is when millions of people stand up and say, “Enough is enough!”
And that is what this political revolution is about. It is involving people, many of whom have given up on the political process to get involved, to stand up, to fight back for justice.
On Tuesday, there is going to be a very, very important primary here in Arizona.
So please on Tuesday, make sure that you, your friends, your family come out to vote. Let us see Arizona help lead a political revolution.
Thank you!

…When we began this campaign about 10 months ago, we were 3% in the polls, about 70 points behind Secretary Clinton.
As of today, last poll that I saw, we are 5 points behind and we’re gaining.
When we began this campaign against the most powerful political organization in the country, we had no money and no volunteers. Now, we have hundreds of thousands of volunteers all over this country.
When we began this campaign, we were considered a fringe candidacy. Now, who in America – the media said – could believe in a political revolution?
Well, 10 months later, we have now won 10 primaries and caucuses.
And unless I’m very mistaken, we’re going to win a couple of more tonight!
When we began this campaign, we talked about the need for millions of people to become involved in the political process.
Tonight in Utah, tonight in Idaho, and tonight in Arizona, there are record-breaking turnouts in terms of voters.
Now, this campaign is doing as well as it is generating the kind of energy and excitement we’re seeing here in San Diego and all over this country because we are doing something very unusual in modern American politics: We are telling the truth.
Now, the truth is not always pleasant, not in our personal lives, not in our political lives.
But we cannot go forward as a nation unless we are prepared to confront the real issues facing our country.

And let me tell you briefly what some of those issues are.
Number one, in America today we are living under a corrupt campaign finance system which is undermining American democracy. Democracy is not a complicated process. It really isn’t.
It means that you have one vote, you have one vote, you have one vote. You want to vote for me, you want to vote against me, that’s fine.
But what democracy does not mean is that billionaires can spend unlimited sums of money to elect candidates who represent the wealthy and the powerful. That is not democracy.
Democracy is not about cowardly Republican governors trying to suppress the vote.
And all over this country, what we are seeing is Republican governors making it harder for poor people, for people of color, for young people, for old people to vote.
And I say to those cowardly governors, if you are not prepared to engage in a free and democratic election, get another job. Get out of politics.
Today, the United States has sadly one of the lowest voter turnouts of any country on Earth.
Our job is to increase voter turnout, not lower voter turnout, to make it easier for people to participate, not harder.
…This campaign is not just about a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining democracy, it is about a rigged economy.
It is about an economy in which the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It is about an economy where the 20 wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom 150 million people.
It is about an economy in which one family – the Walton family owning Walmart – this one family owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of the American people.
And what a rigged economy is about is the wealthiest family in this country paying their employees wages that are so low that many of those workers have to go on Medicaid and food stamps.
And it is the middle class that pays more in taxes to pay for that Medicaid and food stamps.
So I say to the Walton family, get off of welfare, pay your workers a living wage.
That is just one example of many of a rigged economy. Working people paying more in taxes to subsidize the wealthiest family in this country. That is crazy. Together, we’re going to end that.
This campaign is about ending a situation in which millions of our people are working longer hours for lower wages.
It’s about ending a situation where people in America need to work two or three jobs just to bring in enough income and health care to take care of their families.
…

It’s about an economy where mamas are working, dads are working, kids are working, marriages are stressed out, kids do not get the attention they need.
This campaign is about creating an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1%.
But it is not just a corrupt campaign finance system that we are going to change, it is not just a rigged economy that we are going to reform, it is also a broken criminal justice system.
It is not acceptable to me that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
Not acceptable that we are spending $80 billion a year – $80 billion – to lock up 2.2 million Americans, disproportionately African-American, Latino, Native-Americans.
This campaign is about real criminal justice reform, real police department reform.
This campaign is about saying we are tired of seeing unarmed people, often minorities, shot by police.
Now, I have been a mayor and I have worked with police departments all over my state and police departments all over this country, and the truth is the vast majority of police officers are honest and hardworking.
But when a police officer like any other public official breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
This campaign is about ending the militarization of local police departments.
It is about making police departments reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.
It is about re-thinking the war on drugs.
Today, marijuana is a Schedule I drug under the federal Controlled Substances Act right alongside of heroin.
In my view, that is nuts, and that’s why we have introduced legislation to take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substances Act.

In my state of Vermont, neighboring New Hampshire, and states all over this country, we are seeing now an epidemic of heroin use and opioids abuse.
In my view – and we are seeing people dying everyday from heroin overdose – in my view, when we deal with drug abuse, we have got to deal with it as a health issue, not a criminal issue.
Let me just take this opportunity to say what I know is on everybody’s mind.
We’re all aware of the terrible attacks that have taken place in Brussels. Dozens of people are dead and hundreds of people have been wounded.
And I think I speak for everyone in expressing our condolences to the people of Brussels.
…And let me simply say this: We will stand a nation with our allies, our friends, and people all over this world. We will stand with them and we will together crush and destroy ISIS.
We will destroy ISIS through a coalition in the Middle East led by the Muslim nations themselves with our support and the support of other powerful nations.
But as King Abdullah of Jordan said a few months ago, what is going on there is a fight for the soul of Islam and the Muslim nations have got to take on ISIS and win that war.
And we can win that war and destroy ISIS without getting the brave men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces into a perpetual war in the Middle East.
The war in Iraq was one of the worst foreign policy mistakes in the modern history of this country.
I voted against that war and I will do everything that I can to make certain that the United States does not get involved in a similar type war in the future.
This campaign is doing as well as it is because we are listening to the people, not wealthy campaign contributors.
And one of the major differences between Secretary Clinton and myself is how we raised the funds we need to run a campaign.
When we began this campaign, we asked ourselves should we have a Super PAC like everybody else? And we agreed with you.
And what we did unlike all other campaigns is to simply reach out to the American people at BernieSanders.com and say, “If you want to support a candidate who is prepared to take on the billionaire class, to take on Wall Street and corporate America, this is your campaign. Join us.”

And what happened over the last 10 months is something that I in a million years would not have believed and that is we received over 5 million individual campaign contributions.
And does anybody know the average contribution? And that is revolutionary because what we showed is that you could run a winning national campaign without begging billionaires for their money.
Now, Secretary Clinton has chosen to go a different route. What she has done is established a number of Super PACs. Her largest one recently reported raising $25 million from special interest organizations including $15 million from Wall Street.
Now, she has also, as many of you may know, given speeches on Wall Street for $225,000 a speech.
Now, what I have said is that if you’re going to get paid $225,000 a speech, it must be an extraordinarily brilliant speech.
It must a speech that could transform our world. It must be a speech written in Shakespearean prose.
So I think given what a great speech it must have been, let’s release that speech to the American people.
This campaign is listening to working people throughout this country. And what they are telling me is they can’t make it on $8 or $9 or $10 an hour and that we have got to raise the minimum wage in this country to $15 an hour.
This campaign is listening to disabled veterans and to senior citizens. And what disabled vets and seniors are telling me they cannot make it on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security.
And you know what? Nobody can make it on $12,000 a year Social Security.
Now, despite that, we’ve got Republicans in Congress wanting to cut Social Security benefits.
Well, I’ve got bad news for them. We’re not going to cut benefits. We’re going to increase Social Security benefits.

This campaign is listening to women. And what women all over this country are saying is they are sick and tired of working for 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
And I know that every man in this huge room will stand – huge room [mocking Trump] – will stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
And by the way, when we talk about women’s rights, I want everybody to know that all over this country, you’ve got Republicans running around talking about “family values”. And let us be very clear what these Republicans mean. What they mean is that no woman here tonight or in this state or in this country should have the right to control her own body. I disagree.
What they also mean is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to be married. I disagree.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the Latino community.
There are today some 11 million undocumented people in this country, and many of them are living in the shadows, living in fear, and they are being exploited everyday because they have no legal rights.
Now, I am the proud son of an immigrant and I know something about immigrant life.
And what I know is that we will stand with our Latino brothers and sisters.
We will fight for comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
Our immigration policy is what all immigration policy should be: We unite families, not divide families.
And we will stop the deportations currently taking place.
And if the Congress does not do its job, I will use the executive powers of the presidency to do all that I can.
Now, in a democracy, there are people who have different points of view on immigration reform, on everything else.
But what is not acceptable is for the Donald Trumps and others to insult our Mexican and Latino brothers and sisters.

In the 2016, candidates for president should not be resorting to hatred and bigotry.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the African-American community.
And they are asking how does it happen if this country could spend trillions of dollars fighting a war in Iraq we never should have gotten into, how does it happen that we do not have the funds to re-build crumbling communities like Flint, Michigan?
How does it happen that there are minority communities all over this country where unemployment is sky high, where the education system is failing the kids, where health care is not acceptable, and where too many of our young men and women instead of getting great jobs are ending up in jail?
Together, we are going to change the national priorities of this country.
Together, we are going to invest in our communities. Together, we are going to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create millions of jobs.
Flint, Michigan is not the only city in America with serious water problems. All over this country, cities and towns have water problems all over this country. Roads and bridges are failing. Our rail system way behind other countries. Our airports, our levees and dams need to be repaired.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the Native-American community.
Everybody here knows that the way going back to before we were even a country the way that the Native-American people have been treated from day one is a national disgrace.
Native-Americans have been lied to. They have been cheated. Treaties negotiated have been broken. And today, all over this country, we’re finding many Native-American communities in deep economic despair.
If elected president, we will begin treating our Native-American people with the respect that they do.
This campaign is listening to young people.
And what young people are saying is how does it happen when everybody told us we needed to get an education,  when they told us that we needed the best educated workforce in the world, why are we leaving school $20,000, $50,000 in debt?
In my view in the year 2016, when we talk about public education, it is not good enough just to talk about the first grade through the twelfth grade.

The world has changed. The economy has changed. Our public schools have to change and that means making public colleges and universities tuition-free.
I want – and this is not a radical idea – I want every kid in this country who studies hard, does well in school to be able to go to college regardless of his or her income.
I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment, and I have talked to scientists all over the world. The debate is over. Climate change is real. It is caused by human activity.
And together we are going to break our dependence on fossil fuel and transform our energy system into sustainable energy and energy efficiency.
Now, I have been criticized for saying this so let me say it again. I believe that health care is a right for all people.
I believe there is something wrong when every other major country on Earth provides health care as a right and we do not.
Today, the Affordable Care Act has done a lot of good. But we need to do more.
Today, 29 million people have no health insurance and even more are under-insured.
Today, we are being ripped off big-time by the drug companies who are charging us the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
Today in America, one out of five people cannot even afford the prescriptions their doctors write.
So I think we join the rest of the industrialized world, we pass a Medicare for all single-payer program.
Everybody here knows that change in America always takes place from the bottom on up, not from the top down.
That is the history of the trade union movement where workers came together to fight for dignity.

That is the history of the civil rights movement where African-Americans and their allies stood together and said racism, bigotry, and discrimination will not continue in America.
That is the history of the women’s movement. Let us not forget 100 years ago women did not have the right to vote, the right to get an education. They did not have the right to do the jobs they wanted to do.
But what happened is women stood up with their male allies by the millions and they said together that in this country women will not be second class citizens.
And that is the history of the gay movement in this country, where against incredible hatred and opposition the gay community and their allies said that in this country people will have the right to love whomever they want, regardless of gender.
That is how change takes place. Change takes place in a very profound moment when people look around them and they say the status quo is not working – not good enough.
And today all over this country, people are looking around and they’re saying grotesque levels of income and wealth inequality is unacceptable.
They are saying that we should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee paid family and medical leave.
They are saying that we should not have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on Earth.
They are saying that millions of our people should not have to be buried in student debt for decades.
They are saying that we should not have more people in jail than any other country.
They are saying that we should not get involved in wars that are killing our young people.
This is a pivotal moment in American history. Either we continue down the path in which the politics and economics of this country is controlled by a handful of billionaires or whether we make a political revolution.
And what that revolution is about is people standing up from coast to coast saying enough is enough! That our government belongs to all of us, not just a handful of campaign contributors.
In early June, California, the largest state, in our nation will have a major role to play in taking this country forward.
If there is a large voter turnout, we will win here in California.

…One of the crises that we face in our country is that too many people are detached from the political process.
And you are doing by getting involved, by standing up to fight for a better America, to fight for justice for working people and people of color and minorities and gay people – and those people are not getting their voices heard – you are showing your love of this country and your patriotism. And I thank you very much for that.
Now, I’m running for president of the United States not because I woke up or that I believe when I was a little kid or grew up in a home where they said, “Bernie, you’re going to be president of the United States.” Not quite.
I grew up in a 3.5 room rent-controlled apartment in Brooklyn, New York. My family didn’t have…There you go.
I’m running for president because I think frankly that given the enormous crises facing our country, crises like a grotesque of income and wealth inequality in which the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
Crises in which our people today – millions of them – are working not one job but two or three jobs and yet 58% of all new income is going to the top 1%.
A crisis in which millions of young people are graduating college deeply in debt and hundreds of others can’t afford to go to college at a time when we need to have the best educated workforce in the world.
A crisis in which we have a corrupt campaign finance system which as a result of Citizens United allows Super PACs and the billionaires and the Wall Street that funds those Super PACs to buy elections.
Democracy is not a complicated concept. It is one person, one vote, not billionaires buying elections.
And then to add insult to injury, not only do we have these Super PACs undermining American democracy, we have governors like Scott Walker trying to suppress the vote.
Now, if you want to know what kind of president I will be, think about all of the things that Gov. Walker does and I will do exactly the opposite.

You know, one of the things that I have discovered in this campaign is that there are a lot of people, including conservatives, who believe strongly in the principles of democracy.
We can argue amongst each other but at the end of the day one person, one vote, majority rules.
I have absolute contempt – I have friends who are conservatives and we disagree on the issues and that’s fine. But I have contempt – absolute contempt for those Republican governors who do not have the guts to support free, open, and fair elections.
I’ve run for office in the state of Vermont a number of occasions. I’ve lost and I’ve won. But it has never once occurred to me to try to figure out how I could deny people in my state the right to vote because they disagree with me.
So I say to Gov. Walker and all of the other Republican governors who are trying to make it harder for poor people and old people and people of color and young people – trying to make it harder for them to participate in the political process, I say to them, “If you don’t have the guts to participate in a free and fair election, get out of politics and get another job.”
Now, Gov. Walker thinks it’s a great idea to try to destroy the trade union movement. I think it’s a great idea to try to build a stronger trade union movement.
So let me tell Gov. Walker and all the rest that if I’m elected president, we are going to pass a Employee Free Choice Act, which will make it easier for workers to negotiate contracts and form a union.
Gov. Walker apparently feels it is a great idea to give tax breaks to large corporations and then cut education. Well, I think it is a better idea to increase funding for education and demand that the large corporations start paying their fair share of taxes.
Gov. Walker thinks it is a good idea to try to make it as hard as possible for women to control their own bodies. I believe that women have the right to control their own bodies and we will take on the Scott Walkers of the world who are restricting that right.
And by the way, we’re also going to pass pay equity so women don’t make 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.

Governors and senators and virtually all Republican public officials are denying the science of climate change and that is a very scary and dangerous proposition.
It is hard to run a government, it is hard to do serious public policy if you reject science.
Now, I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment. I have talked to scientists all over the world. Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already doing devastating harm throughout the country and throughout the world, and this problem will only get much worse in years to come if we do not transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
The time is now to tell the fossil fuel industry that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of this planet.
In America, today we are living as you all know in a highly competitive global economy.
And yet in Wisconsin and throughout this country our public school systems are in deep distress.
We have a child care and pre-K system which is literally dysfunctional.
Mom is going to work. Dad is going to work. People cannot find quality affordable child care.
And when you talk about crazy, of which we are talking a lot about in this campaign, every psychologist who studies the issue understands that the most important years of human development are zero through 4.
And yet, when mom and dad go to work as often as not, the people who are taking care of their kids are getting paid McDonald’s wages. This is not what America is about and it should not be the way we treat our children.
We need a revolution in early childhood education. People who work with those kids should be well-trained, well-educated, and well-paid.
Now, all of you are aware that when our Republican friends talk about family values, you know what they are talking about and what they are saying is that no woman in this room, in this state, in this country should have the right to control her own body. What they are saying is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to get married.
I disagree.

Now, you’ve met Jane. Jane and I have been married for 27 years. We’re blessed with four great kids and seven beautiful grandchildren.
We believe in family and family values but our values are a little different than the Republicans.
Our values dictate to us that we end the international embarrassment of the United States of America being the only major country on Earth not to guarantee paid family and medical leave.
There are women today giving birth in Wisconsin, in Vermont, all over this country and if they are working class women, if they are low-income women, in many cases they are going to have to go back to work in two or three weeks and separate themselves from their beautiful new babies. That is not a family value. That is the opposite of a family value.
And if elected president, we will pass the very good legislation that Democrats are now supporting in the House and in the Senate and that is 12 paid family and medical leave.
There is one country, one wealthy and industrialized country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people and you are living in that country. And I think it is time we change that.
Now, I’ve been criticized for saying this by various establishment media and others. So let me repeat it so there is no misunderstanding, no equivocation.
I believe that health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
I am a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, and Labor. That committee helped write the Affordable Care Act, and I am very grateful for President Obama’s leadership in making sure that excellent legislation was passed.
What that legislation did was end this obscenity called pre-existing conditions. It ended the discrimination against women in terms of the price they paid for health premiums. It added over 17 million Americans to the ranks of the insured. It provided health insurance for young people to be on their parents’ programs.
All of that is very good. We should be proud of that accomplishment.
But we should not forget that despite the gains of the ACA, 29 million Americans today still have no health insurance. Many of you have health insurance but you are under-insured with large deductibles and co-payments.

And everyday in this country, we are being ripped off in an unconscionable way by the drug companies who are charging us the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
If you want to talk about crazy, crazy is one out of five Americans getting prescriptions from their doctors and not being able to afford those prescriptions.
Crazy is senior citizens dividing their pills in half because they don’t have the money to buy the medicine they need.
And that is why in my view at a time when this country – don’t tell me health care – don’t talk about the cost health care without understanding that in our country we are spending far more per capita on health care than are the people of any other country.
We spend three times more than the British do, 50% more than the French, far more than the Canadians.
And that is why I believe that we must move towards a Medicare for all single-payer program.
Now, Secretary Clinton and I disagree on many issues. But on one issue we surely do not disagree nor do I think does anybody in this room disagree, and that is we have got to do everything in our power to make sure that Donald Trump or some other Republican does not become president of the United States.
On that issues, we are all united.
And let me just say this and I say this as honestly and as straightforwardly as I can.
I happen to believe based on all of the polling that I have seen and on other factors that I am the strongest candidate to defeat Donald Trump.
And I say this with no disrespect to Secretary Clinton or anybody else. But in virtually every poll that I have seen – and I know polls go up and down – the last CNN poll had Bernie Sanders defeating Donald Trump nationally by 20 points. A significantly higher margin than Secretary Clinton.
Last poll, done just a week ago or so here in Wisconsin, had us beating Donald Trump in this battleground state by 19 points. A higher margin than Secretary Clinton.
But it’s not just polling. Here is a fact some of you will agree and some of you may not agree. And I know that there are people who strongly support Secretary Clinton and I respect that. But here is I think an objective assessment of what’s going on.

There is one campaign which has created an enormous amount of excitement and enthusiasm and that is our campaign.
…Let me just say this. What I am very proud of – some of you may agree with me, will like it. Some of you may not. But for the Democratic Party to succeed, we need a vibrancy and we need an energy and we need a level of grassroots activism that we do not have at this moment.
And what that means is we need to bring in millions of young people who have never voted in their lives and I am proud that many of those young people are coming into our campaign.
And if you were to go to some of the rallies that we have held around the country, we have 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, 25,000 people coming out and you look at the eyes of those young people and their spirit and their love for this country and their desire to improve this country, you would have enormous confidence in the future of our country.
And I am enormously proud not only that we have created that kind of energy and grassroots enthusiasm but that we have revolutionized campaign financing in the United States of America.
I don’t have a Super PAC. I don’t get money from Wall Street or anybody else. And I’m proud of that.
We have received over six million individual campaign contributions, averaging $27 apiece.
And in my view, if I may be so bold and I know not everybody here will agree with me, I believe that is the future of the Democratic Party.
I believe that we have got to tell Wall Street and the drug companies and the fossil fuel industry and all of the big money interests, “Sorry, we are not on your side. We don’t want your money.”
So let me conclude in the way I began and that in country today and in fact in this world, we have a series of very, very serious crises.
I wish that I can tell you that the same-old same-old establishment politics and establishment economics could solve those problems. I just don’t believe that.
What I believe right now is like every other great movement in American history – the trade union movement, the civil rights movement, the women’s movement, the gay movement – what we need right now is a movement of millions of people to stand up, fight back, and demand a government that represents all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
Thank you all very much!

…I was told that there were about 5,000 people who participated in the last Wyoming caucus. It looks like all of them are here tonight. Thank you!
Thank you very much for coming out. And let me remind everybody that we’ve got a really important caucus here on Saturday. Doors open at 9 a.m. Let’s be there. Let’s win in Wyoming.
I don’t know if the audience here knows it – I don’t see any TVs here – but it has been projected by I think all of the networks that we won in Wisconsin!
Now, let me say a word – well, maybe two words, I don’t know – about what momentum is all about.
Momentum is starting this campaign 11 months ago and the media determining that we were a fringe candidacy.
Momentum is starting the campaign 60 to 70 points behind Secretary Clinton.
Momentum is that within the last couple of weeks, there have been national polls which have had us one point up or one point down.
Momentum is that when you look at national polls or when you look at state-wide polls, we are defeating Donald Trump by very significant numbers.
And in almost every instance in national polls and in state polls, our margin over Trump is wider than is Secretary Clinton.
With the victory in Wisconsin tonight, and let me take this opportunity to thank the people of Wisconsin for their strong support.
With our victory tonight in Wisconsin, we have now won seven out of eight of the last caucuses and primaries.
And we have won almost all of them with overwhelming landslide numbers.

What momentum is about is that at a time in contemporary politics, when every major candidate has a Super PAC, we have said no to Super PACs, said no to the billionaires who fund those Super PACs.
And what we have done is in an unprecedented manner in American history, we have up to this point in the campaign received over six million individual campaign contributions.
Anyone here know what the average contribution is? [Crowd responds] That’s exactly right. Smart crowd. $27.
To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg, this is a campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people.
We have decided that we do not represent the billionaire class. We do not represent Wall Street or the drug companies or the fossil fuel industry. And we do not want their money.
What momentum is about is my belief that if we wake up the American people and if working people and middle class people, senior citizens and young people begin to stand up, fight back, and come out and vote in large numbers, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish.
And what we have been seeing throughout this campaign is extraordinary voter turnouts in state after state after state.
And I am particularly grateful and pleased that at a time when many of those pundits said, “You know, all those young people, they don’t want to get involved in politics. They’re not really concerned about the major issues facing our country. They’re too busy with their video games or whatever.”
Well, you know what’s happening? All over this country, young people are standing up and they’re saying, “You know what? We want to help determine the future of this country.”
What momentum is about is that all across this country, the American people are looking around them and they understand that real change in our country’s history, whether it is the trade union movement, whether it is the civil rights movement, whether it is the women’s movement, whether it is the gay rights movement, they understand that real change never ever takes place from the top on down. It always take place from the bottom on up.
And today, coast to coast, I’ve been from coast to coast – been in California, been in Maine, been in a whole lot of states in between – and where people are saying why is it that in America, we have grotesque levels of income and wealth inequality? Why is it that the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%?

Why is it that for the last 30 years, the great middle class of this country has been shrinking and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%?
The American people are asking why is it that women go to work tomorrow and they’re earning 79 cents on the dollar compared to men?
People are asking how does it happen that the United States of America – our great nation – is the only major country on Earth not to guarantee paid family and medical leave?
There are women giving birth in Wyoming and Wisconsin and Vermont today but they’re going to have to go back to work in two or three weeks because they don’t have the income to take care of their family, which is why together, we are going to pass three months paid family and medical leave.
And the American people from coast to coast are asking, yes, the Affordable Care Act has done a lot of very good things. Thank you President Obama for your leadership. But in terms of health care there is much, much more that has to be done.
The American people are asking why does it happen that every other major country on Earth – United Kingdom, France, Germany, Holland, Scandinavia, Canada – every major country on Earth guarantees health care to all of their people as a right, except the United States. And together, we are going to change that international embarrassment.
And the American people are asking – and young people are asking – why is it that when we are living in an increasingly competitive global economy, why is it that kids are graduating college $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 in debt? And in some cases, spending decades having to pay off that debt?
We should be rewarding people who get the education they need, not punishing them.
The American people are asking how does it happen when the scientists all over our country who study climate change and scientists all over the world are in virtual unanimous agreement that climate change is real, that it is caused by human activity, that it is already causing devastating problems in our country and around the world, how do we have a Republican Party that refuses to even acknowledge the reality of climate change?
The American people are asking how does it happen that we can spend trillions of dollars fighting a war in Iraq that we never should have gotten in in the first place but that in Flint, Michigan and in cities all over this country our inner cities are crumbling, unemployment off the charts, health care systems not accessible, kids dropping out of high school, too too many being arrested and sent to jail?

How come we can rebuild the infrastructure of Iraq and Afghanistan but we cannot rebuild our own crumbling infrastructure?
The American people are asking as they assemble all over this country why can we not end a campaign finance system, which is corrupt and which is undermining American democracy?
Democracy is not a complicated process. It means you have a vote and you have a vote and you have a vote and majority wins.
What democracy is not about is billionaires buying elections.
And the American people are asking another very important and profound question and that question is how does it happen in the wealthiest nation in the history of the world that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth?
And what the American people are saying is that now is the time to invest in our young people in terms of jobs and education, not jails and incarceration.
Some of you have recently heard about the discovery and the revelations about the tax dodging that is taking place in Panama, which is one of the reasons that I oppose the free trade agreement with Panama and one of the reasons I was on the floor of the Senate talking exactly about what I feared would happen and that is wealthy people and large corporations figuring out ways to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.
And what the American people are asking is at a time of massive wealth and income inequality, how does it happen that you have large profitable, multinational corporations who in a given year pay zero – not a penny – in federal income taxes?
Now, change – real change – comes about whether it is fighting racism, worker exploitation, sexism, homophobia – real change comes about when people stand up and they look around them and they say, “You know what? The status quo is not working. We can do better.”
And let me give – I can give you many examples – but let me give you the most contemporary example of what happens when people stand up and fight back.
If we were here in this beautiful auditorium five years ago, not a long time from a historical perspective, and somebody would have jumped up and said, “You know, I think a $7.25 federal minimum wage is a starvation and it has got to be raised to $15 an hour.”
Now, if somebody stood up five years ago and said that the person next to them would have said, “You’re nuts. $15 an hour? You want to more than double the minimum wage? You’re crazy. Maybe we can get it up to $8, $9 an hour but $15 an hour? You’re dreaming too big.”
Sound familiar?

“You are unrealistic. It can’t be done. Think smaller.”
But then what happened is fast food workers – people working at McDonald’s, people working at Burger King, people working at Wendy’s – they went out on strike.
And I was very proud to join with those workers in Washington.
And they went out and they said, “Fellow, Americans, we can’t live on $7.25 an hour. We can’t live on $8 an hour. You got to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.”
And they fought and they fought, and then suddenly a few years ago, Seattle, Washington, $15 an hour. Los Angeles, San Francisco, $15 an hour. Oregon, $15 an hour.
And in the last several weeks in both California and New York, governors signed legislation for $15 an hour.
What is my point? My point is that yes we can change the status quo when we think big and when we have a vision.
Now, I am not naive. I know the power of Wall Street and their endless supplies of money. I know that corporate America will shut down plants in America and move to Mexico or China if they can make another $5 in profit.
I know that billionaires are funding candidates whose job it is to represent the wealthy and the powerful.
I know about the corporate media that will give us all the information we need except what is most important for working families.
I know about all of that.
But this is what I also know. I know that what history is about is that when people stand up and they say the status quo is not acceptable, we will not have children working in factories, we will not have working people on the job who have no power over those jobs, we will not continue to have segregation or racism or bigotry, we will not have women unable to vote or go to the schools they want or do the work they want, we will pass gay marriage in 50 states in this country.
So that is what I have learned from history is that when we are prepared to think big, when we are prepared to take on the greed and recklessness of Wall Street, when we stand together and we don’t allow the Trumps of the world to divide us up by whether we were born in America or born abroad, whether we are Muslim or Jewish or Christian, when we stand together whether we’re gay or straight, male or female, yes we can create a [government] which represents all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.

Now, this campaign has won seven out of the last eight caucuses and primaries.
With your help, we’re going to win here in Wyoming.
Then we are headed to New York.
And I know a little bit about New York. I spent the first 18 years of my life in Brooklyn, New York.
Now, please keep this a secret. Do not tell Secretary Clinton. She’s getting a little nervous and I don’t want her to get more nervous.
But I believe we’ve got an excellent chance to win New York and a lot of delegates in that state.
And then we are going to head after some other states in the East Coast out to the West Coast.
And we have an excellent chance to win in Oregon and to win in California.
And I think that a lot of these Super Delegates are going to be looking around them and they’re are going to be saying, “Which candidate has the momentum? Which candidate is bringing out huge numbers of people and creating huge – which candidate can bring out large numbers of people?”
See, I can’t use the word huge anymore…But we will win in November if there is a large voter turnout.
That’s what always happens. Democrats and progressives win when there is a large voter turnout. Republicans win when people are demoralized.
This campaign is giving energy and enthusiasm to millions of Americans.
So, I think the people of this country are tired of establishment politics and establishment economics.
I think the people of this country are ready for a political revolution.
And if you ignore what you hear on corporate media, the facts are pretty clear. We have a path toward victory, a path toward the White House.
And Wyoming can give us an enormous boost forward if we win here on Saturday.
We often win – almost win – when the voter turnout is high. We do poorly when the voter turnout is low.
Let us see on Saturday a record-breaking turnout here in the Wyoming caucus.
And let us have Wyoming Democrats making it clear that this great state is part of the political revolution.
Thank you all very much!

…In my country and around the world, we are seeing a handful of very, very wealthy people become wealthier while most people are becoming poorer.
In fact, the top 1% of people on this planet now own more wealth than the bottom 99%.
That to me is unacceptable. It is unsustainable. It is immoral. And together, we have got to change that.
And I have been enormously impressed by Pope Francis speaking out and his visionary views about creating a moral economy – an economy that works for all people, not just the people on top.
And what he has said over and over again, we cannot allow the market just to do what the market does. That’s not acceptable.
We have got to ingrain moral principles into our economy.
And there is no area where that is clearer than the area of climate change.
The greed of the fossil fuel industry is literally destroying our planet.
The scientists are virtually unanimous. Climate change is real and is caused by human activity. It is already causing devastating problems all over this planet.
And whether the fossil fuel industry likes it or not, we have got to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And what Pope Francis has told us over and over again is we have the wealth to do that. We have the technology to do that. We have the know-how to do that.
But what we have got to confront is the greed of people who are so much more concerned about their own billions than the children and the future of our planet.
So I am just so excited to be here. So proud to be here with other like-minded people who are trying to do our best to create a [moral] economy.

…At a time when our middle class is disappearing, when we are seeing almost all new income and wealth going to the top 1%, when we have the most unequal distribution of wealth and income of almost any major country on Earth…it is too late for the same old same old establishment politics.
We’ve got to stand together, take on the big money interests, and make it clear that our government works for all of us, not just the 1%.
And when we talk about the needs of this country, yes, together we’re going to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour so that nobody who works 40 hours lives in poverty.
Yes, we are going to fight to do exactly what your union has done and bring pay equity for women workers all over this country who now get paid 79 cents on the dollar.
Yes, together we are going to end these disastrous trade agreements that have cost us millions of good paying jobs and by the way have led to a race to the bottom where corporations say, “You don’t want to take a cut in your health care or your wages? We’re going to China.”
We’re going to create trade policies that work for American workers, not just the CEOs of large corporations.
…We all know that in this world you don’t have a great and growing middle class unless you have a great and growing trade union movement.
And it is no secret that there have been fierce attacks against the trade union movement for the last number of decades.
And in fact, you can argue that it is the trade unions of today that are the last lines defense against a vicious corporate agenda that is working hard to destroy the middle class.
And that is why I believe that we need legislation that makes it easier for workers to join unions, not harder.
And we have introduced legislation is pretty simple. It says that if you are in a bargaining unit and 50% of the workers in that unit plus one sign a card saying they want to belong to a union, they get union.
And if an employer refuses to negotiate a first contract in a timely manner, that employer will be heavily penalized.
And then we come to the issue of the work that the people in this room do.
It is no secret to anybody in America, whether you’re in the state of Vermont or whether you’re in New York City, that our infrastructure is crumbling.
And that means not just our roads, which are crumbling, not just our bridges – I was in Flint, Michigan several months ago and what I saw there was unspeakable in terms of a water system poisoning its children.
But it’s not just water systems. It’s water plants. But it is levees. It is dams. But it is also mass transportation and our rail system.
And that is why I have introduced legislation and will implement as president a $1 trillion investment to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
We need the best mass transportation system in the world. It is essential to our economy. Millions of people in this city depend on a high quality mass transportation system to get them to work. That’s what the economy depends upon.
But let me also say this is not just an economic issue, which it certainly is. I will tell you what it is also.
I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment, and anyone who tells you that climate change is not real, is not caused by human activity, is not already causing devastating harm to this planet is lying to you. That’s the simple truth.
We have a moral responsibility to make sure that we leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable for our kids and future generations.
And one way we do that is to radically transform our transportation system all over this country. We need great mass transit systems. We need a great rail system. We’ve got to invest in those systems.
And when we rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, by the way, when we rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, we create 13 million good paying jobs.
Now I have been criticized by people who say, “Well, you know, Bernie, $1 trillion even in Washington that’s a lot of money.” How are you going to pay for that?
Let me tell you exactly how I’m going to pay for that. We’re going to end the outrageous loophole that allows large multinational corporations to put their money into the Cayman Islands and in other tax havens so that at the end of a given year after making billions of dollars in profit they do not pay one nickel in a given year in federal taxes. If we end that loophole, that’s $100 billion a year that we put right into our infrastructure.
So I think it makes a lot more sense for this country to rebuild our transit systems, our rail systems, our infrastructure than to give large profitable corporations massive amounts of tax breaks.
So after I leave here and I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart, I believe we’re going to win here in New York City.
We’re going to win here in New York state.
Some of you may know we have won seven of the last eight caucuses and primaries. We started this campaign 50, 60 points behind Hillary Clinton, and in the last few weeks there have been two national polls having us ahead of Secretary Clinton.
So we’re on a roll and your support today is enormously important to taking us a step further.
Now, interestingly enough, just today…what’s going on in America today…As soon as we leave here, we’re going right over to the picket line with the CWA to stand against the greed of Verizon, who wants to take away health care benefits, who wants to outsource jobs after making billions in profits. That’s the kind of corporate greed together we’re going to take on.
TWU, thank you so much for your support.

…Thank you! It looks like Penn State is ready for a political revolution!
What a great turnout and thank you all very much for being here…
Now, I don’t want you to tell anybody this. Keep it – shhh. But Secretary Clinton is getting a little bit nervous.
And she’s getting nervous because we have won seven out of the last eight caucuses and primaries.
She’s getting nervous because when we began this campaign we were 60 points behind and in the last couple of weeks, a few national polls have actually had us in the lead.
She’s getting nervous because Democratic voters know that in virtually every national match up general election poll, we beat Donald Trump by wider numbers than she does.
And the American people are catching on that if we are going to prevent Trump or some other Republican from occupying the White House, which would be a disaster for our country, we have got to campaign to make sure that that does not happen.
This is the campaign that has the energy, that has the enthusiasm, and that in November will create the kind of voter turnout that will not only allow us to retain the White House but will regain the U.S. Senate, will do better in the House.
Now, as many of you know, there is as we speak right this moment there is a Democratic primary taking place in New York state.
Now, the polls don’t close there until 9 p.m. so we don’t know who is going to be winning or losing but you know what? We’re going to do a lot better I think than people thought we would.
And I want to thank all of the people in New York for the support that they are giving us today.
But I do want to say something. One of the themes of this campaign in Pennsylvania and in every state that we have been to is the need to re-invigorate American democracy.
Right now, in America, we have one of the lowest national – voter turnout rates of any major country on Earth. And I want us to change that. I want to see more of our people actively involved in the political process regardless of their views.

And in that regard, I would hope that in future primary elections in New York state, the officials there make some fundamental changes about how they do business.
Today in New York state, if you can believe this, in New York state today, about 27% of the eligible voters in that state are unable to participate in the Democratic or Republican primaries because they have chosen to list themselves as independents. That’s wrong.
Almost 3 million people in that state cannot vote today and that has got to change in future elections.
It is absurd that in Brooklyn, New York where I was born actually, tens of thousands of people as I understand it have been purged from the voting rolls.
That’s a little bit crazy that in upstate New York they open the polls at 12 noon. What happens to people who get up early in the morning and have to go to work?
And yet, despite all of that, despite the fact that Secretary Clinton has won elections there twice for the U.S. Senate, despite the fact that she beat then-Sen. Obama in 2008 in the primary there by 17%, despite the fact that virtually the entire New York political Democratic establishment is standing with her, you know what? We’re going to do just fine tonight in New York.
And the reason that we’re going to do well as we will is because we’re doing something pretty radical in contemporary American politics – we are telling the truth.
And the truth is that people understand it whether you’re conservative, progressive, or moderate is we have a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy.

Democracy is not a complicated process. It is one person one vote, not billionaires and super PACs buying elections.
And when I talk revitalizing American democracy, what it means is that if any of you are interested in running for office, no matter what your view may be, I want you to be able to stand up, fight for your points of view, and run for office without having to beg wealthy people for campaign contributions.
I am very proud – and when we talk about a political revolution and transforming America, we are already accomplishing that in terms of the way that our campaign is raising money. We are virtually the only campaign that does not have a super PAC.
We made a decision early on that our campaign does not represent the billionaire class. We don’t represent corporate America. We don’t represent Wall Street, and we have chosen not to take their money.
Instead, what we have done is something unprecedented in the history of this country. What we have done is reach out to the middle class and working families.
And what we have said is “Look, if you want a candidate who is prepared to stand up to the 1% who have so much impact over our economy and our political life, support us. We need your help.”
And unbelievably, unbelievably, and in a million years, I never would have predicted that this could happen. In the last 11 plus months, we have received some 7 million individual campaign contributions. That is more campaign contributions than any candidate in the history of our country at this point in an election.
And what we have shown uniquely is that we can run a winning national campaign without being dependent on the big money interests.
Anyone here know what the average campaign contribution is? Try $27. That’s pretty good.
Now, Secretary Clinton has chosen another approach. She has a number of super PACs and in the last filing report, a major super PAC listed $25 million in special interest funding, including $15 million from Wall Street.
Now, in addition to that, as some of you may know, Secretary Clinton has given speeches behind closed doors to Wall Street firms for $225,000 a speech.
Now, what I have said is if you’re going to get paid $225,000 for a speech, must be a pretty good speech, must be an earth shattering speech, must be a speech which sheds brand new light on the global crises that we face, must be a speech written in Shakespearean prose.

I can’t imagine anyone getting $225,000 for a speech if it’s not that great.
So I think that if that speech is as great as it must be, it’d be a good idea for the Secretary to release a transcript of that speech to all of us.
Now, Secretary Clinton has said well, she will release those transcripts if other people do the same.
All right? Are you ready? Are you ready for a dramatic announcement? All right, this is a historical moment so pay rapt attention.
Tonight, I am announcing that I will release all of the transcripts of all of the speeches I have given to Wall Street.
And because I believe in transparency on this matter, I’m going to make those transcripts available to you – are you ready? All right, here they come. You got them? That’s it. No speeches, no transcripts, not for $225,000, not for $2.
But, I am keeping my cell phone on because I am waiting for that call from JP Morgan Chase or Goldman Sachs saying “We want you to give a speech to Wall Street.”
Now, I don’t need $200,000, I don’t need $2. But I would like to speak to Wall Street and I will tell you why.
Because it is important for somebody to tell Wall Street that their greed, their recklessness, and their illegal behavior seriously hurt the lives of millions of our fellow Americans.
As a result of their actions, their illegal actions, millions of Americans lost their jobs, their homes and their life savings and many of those people have yet to recover.
Now, the other point that I would like to make to Wall Street is when Congress, against my vote, bailed them out, when Congress bailed them out because the major banks were too big to fail, turns out that three out of the four largest banks today are bigger now than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail.
Turns out that five major banks could not recently pass what’s called a living will process, telling us how they would break themselves up in the event of a financial crisis for those banks.
Turns out also that in the last week or two, Goldman Sachs, one of the large financial institutions on Wall Street reached a $5 billion settlement with the United States government. You know why they reached that settlement? Because they acknowledge that they were selling worthless packages of subprime mortgage loans.
And they of course were not the only banks. Other major banks reached even larger settlements.
So point number one. I want you to think about this as we think outside of the box. Wall Street is the most powerful entity in the United States of America.
They have more economic and political power than any other entity in our country. And yet, it turns out that the business model from the major financial institutions is fraud.
And that is why when three out of four are larger than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, today we have got to break them up.

And here is another point that gets the American people very cynical and very angry.
Some kid in Pennsylvania today gets picked up for possessing marijuana. That kid will have a criminal record for his entire life.
But turns out that if you are an executive for a major Wall Street firm whose illegal behavior destroys the lives of millions of Americans, the only thing you get is an increase in your compensation package.
And that is why together, we are going to bring justice back to a broken criminal justice system.
Now I don’t know – I don’t know but maybe that’s why they have not invited me to give that speech to Wall Street. Could be wrong.
This campaign is doing as well as it is because we understand that not only do we have a corrupt campaign finance system, we have a rigged economy.
And let me tell you what you’re not going to see on television very often or read in the papers and that is that in America today we have more income and wealth inequality than almost any major country on Earth and it is worse today than at any time since 1928.
I want you to think about it because this campaign is about thinking outside of the box. It is about not accepting the status quo because it is the status quo. It is about challenging the status quo.
What this campaign is about is saying loudly and clearly that when the top 0.1% – not 1%, 0.1% – now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%, that is not an economy that is moral, sustainable, or American.
America should not be a nation in which the 20 wealthiest people – 20 people – have more wealth than the bottom 50% of our people or 150 million Americans.
And let me explain what a rigged economy is about because it’s not just grotesque levels of income and wealth inequality.
Today, the wealthiest family in America is the Walton family who owns Walmart. You’re not going to see this on TV but Walmart is the largest private sector employer in this country and the wages they pay their workers are so low that many of their employees are forced to go on food stamps or Medicaid.
Who pays for those food stamps and Medicaid for employees? You do!
…They should not look like occupying armies. We need to make police departments reflect the diversity of the communities they serve. We need to make certain that every police officer in this country understands that lethal force is the last response, not the first response.
We need to end corporate ownership of prisons and detention centers.
We need to re-think the so-called war on drugs. In the last 30 years, last 30 years, millions of Americans have received police records as a result of possession of marijuana and many lives have been destroyed as a result.
And this becomes a racial issue because it turns out that the black and the white community do marijuana at about equal rates. But blacks are four times more likely to be arrested.
Today, under the Federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is listed as a Schedule I drug, right alongside heroin.
That is why I believe we must take marijuana out of the Federal Controlled Substance Act.
Now, in my state of Vermont and all across this country today we face a very serious crisis in terms of opiate addiction and heroin addiction and every single day people are dying of drug overdoses.
In my view, if we are going to be successful in addressing this issue, we need to understand the substance abuse and addiction is a health issue, not a criminal issue.
And that means a revolution in the way we do mental health treatment in this country.
And what means is we have got to make mental health treatment available to people when they need it, not six months from now.
Now, this campaign is going to win because we are listening to ordinary Americans, not just wealthy campaign contributors.
And what working people are telling me from one end of this country to the other is they can’t make it on $8 or $9 an hour. We need to raise the minimum wage to a living wage and that living wage is $15 an hour.

It is not a radical idea to suggest that if you work $40 a week in this country, you should not live in poverty. A great nation is judged not by how many millionaires and billionaires it has, not by how many nuclear weapons it has, but how it treats the weakest and most vulnerable amongst us.
And right now, in Pennsylvania, in Vermont, and across this country, we have millions of seniors, disabled veterans, and people with disabilities who are struggling to get by on $11,000, $12,000 a year Social Security. And you know what? You can’t get by on $11,000, $12,000 a year Social Security.
Now, Republicans, their response to this crisis in many respects is to say, “Okay, let’s cut Social Security.”
Well, I got some bad news for my Republican colleagues. We’re not going to cut Social Security; we’re going to expand Social Security benefits.
This campaign is listening to women, and women are telling me they are sick and tired of going to work and finding out they’re making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
Women of this country want the whole damn dollar and they’re right. And I know that every man in this arena will stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
This campaign is listening to young people. You know, when we began this campaign, the kind of punditry analysis was “Well, young people, you know, they’re not interested in government. They’re not interested in politics. They’re too busy with their video games or whatever else they do.” Well, turns out not to be quite accurate.
Turns out that young people fully understands they are the future of our country. And they want to help determine the future of this country.
And wherever I go, young people ask me, “Listen, our parents told us ‘Go out and get a good education.’ Our teachers said, ‘Get all the education that you can.’ The community said, ‘We are living in a competitive global economy. We need the best educated workforce in the world. Go out and get that education.’”

But then young people come up to me and said “We did what people told us to do. Now we’re $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 in debt.”
And the question is why are we punishing millions of young people for doing exactly what we asked them to do?
We should be rewarding people for getting an education, not punishing them.
Now, just think outside of the box for a moment. Think outside of the status quo. Go beyond where the media wants you to go and what our options are.
You all know that if this country is to succeed in the future with a strong economy, you need and we all need to have the best education possible. Is that right?
Education is inherent in who we are as human beings. We should be educating ourselves ’til the day we die.
It is literally insane to be punishing millions of people, saying to them “You’re going to be paying off your student debt for decades because you got an education.”
A woman in my own state of Vermont. Her dream was to go to medical school. She did. $300,000 in debt.
We desperately need more dentists in this country. A woman in Iowa graduates dental school. $400,000 in debt.
Talked to a guy in Nevada, 55 years of age, he’s been paying his student debt for 25 years. He’s more in debt today than he was when he took out the damn debt.
That is not only unfair to the individuals, it is absurd when we talk about the future of our economy. And that is why I believe when we talk about public education today, it is not good enough to just talk about free public education, meaning first grade through twelfth grade. The world has changed. The economy has changed. People need more education now than they did 30, 50 years ago.
And that is why when we think about public education today, we’ve got to be thinking about making public colleges and universities tuition free.
And with millions of people being crushed by high levels of student debt, we have got to reduce that debt significantly, and we do that by allowing people with the debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Now very often in this campaign, I’m being criticized for thinking too big.
“Bernie, you are Santa Claus. You’re giving away free tuition. You’re going to lower student debt. You’re a nice guy. How are you going to pay for all this stuff?”
All right, I want you to think about a couple of things. Number one, in the last 30 years, there has been a massive transfer of wealth in this country from the middle class to the top 0.1% of 1%. Trillions of dollars gone from the hands of working families to the very wealthiest people in this country.
Second of all, back in 2008, 2009, this country bailed out Wall Street after their illegal behavior destroyed our economy.
I believe that now is the time to impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. If we could bail out Wall Street, now it is Wall Street’s time to help the middle class. And if we do that, we’re going to bring in more than enough money to make public college and universities tuition free and lower student debt.
…

This campaign is about transforming our national priorities, not accepting the status quo of today.
This campaign is listening to the African-American community. They’re asking me a very simple or profound question.
“Bernie,” they asked, “how does it happen that we have trillions of dollars to spend in a war in Iraq that we never should have gotten into but somehow we seem not have enough money to rebuild our crumbling inner cities?”
And they are absolutely right. I have been to Flint, Michigan. And what I saw in Flint, Michigan was unspeakable in that children were being poisoned by lead in the water, which is impacting their cognitive capabilities.
But it’s not just Flint. It’s in Detroit, Michigan – their school system is crumbling as we stand here tonight.
All over this country in inner city America, rents are unaffordable, unemployment rates off the charts, too many people being arrested and sent to jail. We have got to invest in inner cities in this country and rebuild our infrastructure.
If we can rebuild the infrastructure in Iraq and Afghanistan, we damn well can rebuild the infrastructure in America.
And by the way, when we rebuild our inner cities, when we rebuild our roads and our bridges and our water systems and our wastewater plants and our rail systems and our airports. We make America safer, stronger, and we create 13 million decent paying jobs.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the Latino community. Today, we’ve got 11 million undocumented people in this country and many of them are being exploited everyday because when you don’t have a legal right, your employer can do anything he wants to you.
And that is why together, we are going to pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
This campaign is listening to people whose voices are almost never heard and that is the Native American community. From before this country became a country when the first settlers came here, the Native American people were lied to. They were cheated. And treaties negotiated were broken.
We as the people owe the Native American community more than we can ever re-pay. Some of the best aspects of our culture come from the Native American people.
They have taught us among other things that as human beings we are part of nature, that we have got to live with nature, not destroy nature.
And yet today, despite all they have given us, if you go to reservations in this country, our Native American communities, you see terrible, terrible poverty, unemployment, suicide rates among teenagers – horrific.
If elected president, we will change our government’s relationship to the Native American people.
I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment and in that respect, I have met with scientists all over the country, scientists all over the world, and here is the simple truth.
Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity and it is already doing devastating harm to our country and much of the world.
And here is the other truth – a scary truth but a truth nonetheless and that is what the scientists are telling us is that we have a very short window of opportunity to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And in my view, we have a moral responsibility to make certain that the planet that we leave our kids and future generations is a planet that is healthy and habitable.
And what that means politically is that we have got to stand together and take on the fossil fuel industry and tell them that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of our planet.
And by the way, if we are prepared to think big and think of a clean sustainable energy system where our homes and our buildings are energy efficient, where our transportation system is energy efficient, where we move aggressively to solar, wind, geothermal, and other sustainable technologies, we can create millions of good-paying green jobs as we make that transition.
Let me repeat now what I have been criticized for saying on many occasions. So let me be crystal clear and say it again, and that is it is my view that health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
Now, the corporate media doesn’t talk about this a whole lot because they’re getting ads from the insurance companies and the drug companies. So let me tell you what you may not see on TV and that is we are the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right.
They do it in the U.K. They do it in France, Germany, Holland. I live 50 miles away from the Canadian border – they do it in Canada.
Now, right now as a result of the gains of the Affordable Care Act, we have made some progress. We have 17 million Americans who now have health insurance who previously did not. We’ve done away with pre-existing conditions. Many young people are now able to be on their parents’ insurance plans.

All of that is good but it is not good enough.
Today, 29 million people have no health insurance. Even more, including here tonight, are under-insured with high deductibles and co-payments. And every person here is getting ripped off by the drug companies who charge us the highest prices in the world…
And despite all of that, we end up spending much more per capita on health care than do the people of any other major country.
In my view and this is thinking outside of the box but it’s envisaging a new America, in my view, we need to pass a Medicare for all single payer program.
Think of America where every person has health care as a right. Think of an America where you can quit your job and go out and start your own business and not worry about having health insurance.
And if you’re a small business person you don’t have to worry about how you’re going to provide health insurance to your employees because they already have health insurance.
Everybody here understands that what American history has been about is the understanding that real change – real change – never takes place from the top on down, always from the bottom on up.
That is the history of America. Think back 100 plus years ago, workers in this country forced to work seven days a week, 12 hours a day, children working in factories, people could be fired arbitrarily. They have no rights on the job. And workers stood up and they said, “We are not beasts of burden. We are not animals. We are human beings. We want dignity. We’re going to form trade unions and negotiate contracts.”
Think back several hundred years ago with the abomination of slavery, African-Americans and their allies said, “We will struggle for as long as it takes to end racism and segregation and bigotry in the United States of America.” And millions of people stood up to fight for an America not based on racism.
Think about 100 years ago – not a long time from a historical perspective – 100 years ago today, women did not have the right to vote, could not get the education they wanted, could not do the work they wanted. But women stood up. They stood up and they said, “The status quo ain’t good enough. It’s unacceptable.” And women and their male allies said that in America, women will not be second class citizens.
And on and on it goes. That’s how change takes place.
Think about this: If we were in this room 10 years ago, which is no time at all from a historical perspective, 10 years ago if somebody here jumps up and said, “You know, Bernie, I think that gay marriage will be made legal in this country in 50 states by the year 2015.” Do you know what the person next to her would have said? “You’re crazy. You’re thinking too big. It can’t happen.”

But what happened is the gay community and their straight allies, they stood up and they made the claim that became impossible to argue against, and that is that people have a right to love each other regardless of their gender.
That is how change takes place – always takes place when people stand up and reject the status quo and come together.
To give you one more example, five years ago, if we were in this room five years ago and somebody jumps up and said, “Bernie, you know, this $7.25 an hour minimum wage, it’s an outrage. People can’t live on it. We’ve got to raise that minimum wage to $15 an hour. The person next to him would have said, “$15 an hour? You want to more than double the minimum wage? You’re nuts. You’re thinking too big. You’re too radical. Maybe $8. Maybe $10. You can’t go to $15 an hour.”
But you know what happened? Workers in the fast food industry, in McDonalds and Burger King and Wendy’s, they went out on strike. And they said to the American people, “We can’t make it on $7.25 an hour.”
And you know what happened?
A couple years ago in Seattle, Washington, they passed a $15 an hour minimum wage.
And then in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oregon, California, New York state.
Here is my point – the major crisis we face are not the crises themselves. It is the beliefs told us every single day by the establishment, by the media, by the Congress, “You can’t make change. This is the status quo. This is the way it is and this is the way it always will be. Doesn’t matter what you believe.”
And that is what this campaign is challenging.
And that is why we’re going to win this election.
Because change takes place when people look around them and say, “Whoa. What is going on? This is just unacceptable.” And that is what’s happening in America today. People all over this country are beginning to see that the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality where almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1% – unacceptable.
People are beginning to see that it’s absurd that we are the only major country on Earth not to provide paid family and medical leave.
People are asking how come every other major country on Earth can somehow provide health care to all of their people but we can’t do it? Unacceptable.
People are asking how does it happen – why does it happen – that our infrastructure continues to crumble. Why does it happen that we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth? Why do we have a corrupt campaign finance system that allows billionaires to buy elections? Why do we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth? Why are kids graduating school $30,000, $50,000 in debt?
Those are the questions that people are beginning to ask.

And as soon as they ask those questions, they quickly realize that establishment politics and establishment economics are not going to solve those problems.
I am the only candidate for president to tell you a simple truth and that is that no president – not Bernie Sanders or anybody else – can solve these crises alone. We need millions of people, including many people who have given up on the political process, who have turned away from the process in disgust. We need them back into the system to reclaim American democracy.
We need young people – many of whom may never have voted yet in their lives to say, “Excuse me, the decisions you are making now are going to impact me and my kids for the next many, many decades. You better listen to what we have to say.”
So what this political revolution is about is the understanding that no president, not Bernie Sanders or anybody else can do it alone. The only way we go forward and rebuild America and create the economy that works for all of us – the environment that works for all of us – is when millions of people stand up and say loudly and clearly “Enough is enough!”
And if we do not allow the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up, if we all understand that our strength is in our diversity, and if we stand together, and if we demand a government that represents all of us and not just the 1%, when we stand together there is nothing that we cannot accomplish.
Next Tuesday, here in Pennsylvania, there will be an enormously important Democratic primary. What I have learned so far from this campaign is when voter turnout is high we win. When voter turnout is low we lose.
So next Tuesday, let us have the highest voter turnout in Pennsylvania history. And let Pennsylvania go forward and tell the world you are going to lead this country into a political revolution. Thank you all very much.

West Virginia, thank you!
What an extraordinary turnout tonight. Thanks so much for being here.
…I want to thank all of you for being here.
I want to thank all of you for being prepared to stand up, fight back, and make this country the nation we know it can become.
This campaign is not just about electing a president; it is about transforming our nation.
It is about having the courage to demand a political revolution.
And you are the revolutionaries because you understand that unlike football or basketball, politics is not a spectator sport.
So let me tell you a secret that many others will not. You are all – each and every one of you – powerful people if you choose to exercise that power.
The fight that we are waging is not an easy fight. But I know you are prepared to wage that fight against the 1%, against the billionaire class and against a small number of people with incredible wealth and incredible power who control our economic life, our political life, and our media life.
When we began this campaign just about a year ago, we started with no political organization. We started with no money and we had no name recognition outside of Vermont.
And I want all of you to get up to Vermont and visit our beautiful state.
And when we began this campaign, the media said “Well, Bernie is a nice guy. He combs his hair really well. Top notch dresser. But nonetheless, he really is a fringe candidate. The campaign is a fringe campaign not to be taken seriously.”

And in the middle of all of that, we were taking on the most powerful political organization in America – an organization that elected a president – President Clinton – on two occasions and ran a very strong campaign for president for Secretary Clinton in 2008.
And when we began this campaign, we were about 3% in the national polls. We were about 60 points behind Secretary Clinton. Well, a lot has happened in the last year.
As of today, we have now won 16 primaries and caucuses all over this country.
And with your help, we’re going to win here in West Virginia.
We have won over 1,200 delegates to the Democratic National Convention.
And in the last several weeks, the national polls – they don’t show us 60 points down. A few of them have us actually ahead or a few points down.
And what is also extremely important if the Democratic Party is to look at which candidate is the candidate to defeat Donald Trump or any other Republican, what we are seeing on national polls which have us 15, 20 points ahead of Donald Trump, far more than Secretary Clinton. Almost every national poll and every state poll has us defeating Trump, and that margin for us is significantly larger than that of Secretary Clinton.
And the reason that we are doing so much better against Republican candidates is that no only are we winning the overwhelming majority of Democratic votes, but we are winning independent votes and some Republican votes as well.
And that is a point that I hope the delegates to the Democratic Convention fully understands. In a general election, everyone – Democrat, Independent, Republican – has the right to vote for president.
The elections are not closed primaries. We were in New York state last week. Three million people in New York state could not vote because they were independents.
Well, you know what? Those folks and independents all over this country will be voting in November for the next president of the United States.
And in most cases, we win the independent vote by a two to one margin.

This campaign is doing as well as it is with the extraordinary energy and enthusiasm that we are generating all across this country.
Look at this room here tonight. We have over 6,000 people.
And the reason we are generating this enthusiasm is because we are doing something very unusual in contemporary American politics – we are telling the truth.
Now, the truth is as every person here knows whether it is in our own personal lives or in our broad national political life, truth is not always pleasant. It’s not always something you are happy to hear.
But if we go forward as human beings, if we go forward as a nation, we cannot sweep the hard realities of our lives underneath the rug. We have to bring it out. We have to deal with it.
And unfortunately, media in this country for a variety of reasons, largely because they’re owned by major corporations, do not deal in most cases – there are great exceptions – but they do not deal with the realities of our lives in a way that we need to be discussing.
Now, let me just give you a few examples of what I mean and making it really relevant to life here in West Virginia, and I’ve been all over this country. I have all over this country and the things that I have seen are incredibly heartbreaking.
I was in Flint, Michigan, where children are being poisoned by lead in the water that they are drinking.
I have been to Detroit, Michigan where their public school system is on the verge of a fiscal collapse.
I have been to Baltimore, Maryland where tens of thousands of people are addicted to heroin.
And I know that addiction is a problem here but we’ll get to that in a second. But the point is – point number number one. I want everybody here to know this. Never forget it. We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. But, most people in our country don’t know that because almost all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
We are the wealthiest country in the history of the world and that means that public school systems should not be collapsing, youth unemployment in this country should not be 30%, 40%, or 50%. Our infrastructure should not be disintegrating.
So we as a people have got to ask some very hard questions and then have the guts to take on some very powerful people.
You know, a great nation is not judged by the number of billionaires it has or by the number of nuclear weapons it has. It is judged by how it treats the weakest and most vulnerable amongst us. It is not acceptable to me that in America we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost every major country on Earth. That is not the way we should be treating the young people of this country.
And right here in West Virginia, your beautiful state, 100,000 children in this great state live in poverty over 24% of the total number of kids, right here in West Virginia.

When we talk about employment, officially, unemployment in America is supposed to be 5%. But you know that that is not the case. Real unemployment is much, much higher than that.
In fact, right here in West Virginia, this state has the lowest labor force participation rate in the country. In fact, only 54% of the working age population in this state has a job.
When we talk about the grotesque levels – and I talk about this a lot – when I talk about the grotesque levels of income and wealth inequality, West Virginia is almost at the top of that list.
And again, this is a national problem. Believe me, it exists in my state of Vermont. But this is an issue we have got to deal with in every state in the country.
And listen to this: From 1979 to 2012, the top 1% of the people in West Virginia saw their incomes go up by more than 60% on average while the bottom 90% saw their income go down by 0.4%. And that is what we are seeing all over America.
We have an economy today that is doing really, really, really great if you’re in the top 1%. But if you’re in the bottom 90%, the likelihood is you’re working longer hours for lower wages if you’re lucky enough to have a job.
And I want everybody here to know this is not just I’m using West Virginia statistics tonight because I’m here. This is a national issue, and that is why together we are going to create an economy that works for all of our people, not just the people on top.
A couple of years ago, as chairman of a subcommittee in the Senate and we did a hearing on poverty as a death sentence. You know what I mean by that? This is what I mean by that.
When you hear about people being poor, people say, “Well, that’s too bad. You know, they don’t have a good car. Their housing is not really that good. They don’t have enough money to go out to eat. It’s really bad being poor.”
Being poor is much, much more than that. What being poor is about in America is you die at a significantly lower age than people who have money.
McDowell County here in West Virginia is one of the poorest counties in the United States of America. The United States of America being the richest country in the history of the world. In McDowell County, 77% of the children under the age of 18 are living in poverty in the United States of America. In McDowell County, men can only expect to live until the age of 63.

Now, I want you to think about this. Again, being poor means not just that you don’t have a big flat screen TV or a fancy car. It means that you are dying at a significantly lower age than your fellow Americans.
If you drive, for example, drive six miles north from this county, you go to Fairfax County, Virginia, in Fairfax County, men live on average until the age of 82 years of age – 18 years more than men lived in McDowell County.
The average life expectancy for a woman in Fairfax County is 85; in McDowell County it is 73 years of age.
And it’s not just McDowell County. We have counties like that maybe not so bad all over this country.
These are issues of inequality that as a nation we have got to address.
And you know, one of the issues that I talk about a whole lot and is directly related to poverty, directly related to unemployment is the fact that we have a broken criminal justice system.
Again, what this campaign is asking all of you is to think outside of the box, think outside of the status quo, think beyond the options that corporate television allow you to envisage.
Think about why people in McDowell County die in a significantly lower age than people in wealthier communities.
Think about why it is in city after city in America, we have youth unemployment levels of 40%, 50%, 60%, and that relates to an international embarrassment that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
This is the United States of America. We should have the best educated people in the world.
Our people should have decent paying jobs, not rot in jail.
Now, this campaign is going to win because we are doing something unusual. We are talking to the American people and not just to wealthy campaign contributors.
And when I talk about unpleasant truths that all of us have to address, truth number one is that we have a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy.
Think outside of the box. What does democracy mean? It is not a complicated concept. It means that you have a vote, you got a vote, you got a vote, majority wins.
Democracy does not mean that the Koch brothers and a few other billionaires can spend hundreds of millions of dollars to buy elections.
That is not democracy, my friends. That is called oligarchy.
And if we do not turn things around, we will increasingly see an economy and a government run by a handful of billionaires and together we will not allow that to happen.

But it is not just a corrupt campaign finance system, that we are going to have to address. It is a rigged economy.
If this is what a rigged economy means, it means today – and listen to this. This is really pretty unbelievable. The top 0.1%, not 1% – 0.1%, now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
In America today, the wealthiest 20 people own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million people.
In America today, one family – the Walton family of Walmart – one family owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of the American people.
And you know what I say? I say enough is enough!
But it is not only an unfair distribution of wealth, it is income as well. Again, I want to say this to the young people who may not believe me, and I want you to check it out, Google it after you get out of here. Not now.
But here is the fact, 40 years ago, before the explosion of technology, before the cell phone and the space age technology, before the global economy, it was possible in America for one person – one breadwinner – to earn enough money to take care of the entire family. One breadwinner to earn enough money to take care of the entire family.
Well, then you got the whole global economy, all of the technology, you know what happens? Today, mom is out working. Dad is out working. The kids are out working. And they have less disposable income than a one breadwinner family had 40 years ago.
Something is wrong with our economy.
In America today, in Vermont, West Virginia, you’ve got people working not one job. They’re working two jobs. They’re working three jobs. You’ve got people working longer hours for lower wages.
We are going to create an economy that protects the needs of our workers, our children, our seniors, our veterans, all of the people of this country and not just the 1%.
What does that mean? Is that a hard thing to do? No, it’s not. Let me give you an example of some of what we have got to do.
Number one, in America if you work 40 hours a week, you should not be living in poverty. We’re going to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
$15 an hour will mean that millions of people will be able to support their families with the kind of dignity and security that they do not have today.
And second, when we talk about equitable wages, we’re going to end the absurdity of women making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
And I know that every man here will join women in the fight for pay equity.
When unemployment rates throughout this country are extremely high, especially in urban areas and in rural areas and when people are not making enough income to take care of their family, it is a no brainer to suggest we need a massive federal jobs program to put our people back to work.

In Vermont, in West Virginia, and all over this country, our infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our water systems, our waste water plants, our rail systems, our airports, our levees and dams – are in massive disrepair. We can create 13 million jobs with a $1 trillion investment.
Well, people say, “That’s a nice idea. Yeah, infrastructure is – probably you’re right, Bernie. But how are you going to pay for it?”
I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it.
Right now, we have a corrupt federal tax system which allows major corporations – major corporations – who make billions of dollars a year in profit to stash their profits in they Cayman Islands, the Bermuda, and in other tax havens.
We’re going to end that tax loophole – $100 billion a year we invest in the infrastructure…
And when we talk about the economy, we’ve got to talk about something the media almost never talks about. It’s not a sexy issue but an enormously important issue and that is our disastrous trade policies.
Again, let me tell the young people something they may not know. And that is there was actually once a time, not so many years ago, when you could go to a department store and buy products manufactured in the United States of America.
But as a result of trade policies like NAFTA and permanent normal trade relations with China, policies written by corporate America, what happened is companies shut down plants in Vermont, West Virginia, and all over this country. They said, “Why do I want to pay somebody here $15, $20 an hour when I can go to China or Mexico and pay people pennies an hour and that’s what they did.”
As a result of these terrible trade agreements, we have lost millions of decent paying jobs. Millions.
And one of the big differences between Secretary Clinton and myself, she supported virtually every one of these disastrous trade agreements. I have opposed them all.
And our message to corporate America is, “You want us to buy the products you make? Make these damn products here in West Virginia and in the United States.”
This campaign is going to win because we are listening to people whose voices are not often heard.
And one of the groups of people that I have been very proud to have listened to all over this country is young people.
You know, it’s a funny thing. When we began this campaign, the general attitude of the punditry and the political scientists were, “Well, young people, you know, they’re not really interested in government. They’re not really interested in politics. They’re too busy with their video games or whatever else they do.”
Well, it turns out that the young people in this country are a lot smarter than the pundits thought.
It turns out that the young people understand they are the future of this country and they want to help shape that future.
Young people understand that there is something profoundly wrong that in this country today the young generation may be the first generation in the modern history of America to have a lower standard of living than their parents. That’s right.

My father came to this country at the age of 17 with no money and he never made any money. But he worked hard and my mom worked hard and their dream was that their kids – my brother and I would be financially better off than they were.
That is called the American area that millions of American families have experienced.
Parents work hard so their kids can do better than they.
And together, that American dream – that American dream – we will not allow to die.
There’s another issue out there that young people all over the country talk to me about. They said you know, Bernie, we did what our parents told us to do, what our teachers told us to do, what our communities told us to do and that is go out and get the best education that we can.
Because we all understand that learning and education is inherent in who we are as human beings and that also for our country to do well in the future, we need the best educated workforce in the world.
So millions of young people did the right thing. They went to college. But then what happened is they left school $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 in debt.
And I have talked to people who are paying off that debt for decades. They can’t afford to buy a car, buy a house, get married, have kids, to start paying off that debt for what crime did they commit? For getting an education? That is nuts!
All of you know that 40 or 50 years ago, if you had a high school degree, the likelihood was that you were able to go out and get a halfway decent job and make it into the middle class with a high school degree.
But the world has changed. The economy has changed. Technology has changed. People today need more education than they need 50 years ago.
And thinking outside of the box, outside of the status quo, leads you to a very simple conclusion. 50 years ago, it was great that we had free public education from first grade to twelfth grade. That was great.
But the world has changed and when we talk about public education today, it must mean making public colleges and universities tuition free.
I think for a moment there are people who have attacked me on this – oh, it’s a radical idea, Bernie.
This is not a radical idea. It exists in countries like Germany already and in Scandinavia. They understand that investing in their young people is investing in the future of their country.
And by the way, you may not know this but 50 years ago in the United States of America, our major great, public colleges and universities were virtually tuition free.

If we could have virtually free tuition 50 years ago, we damn well can do it today.
Now, once again, this proposal which by the way also includes dealing with the crisis of student debt today because we have millions of people dealing with student debt and our proposal will allow people with student debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Just out of curiosity, how many people here are carrying student debt right now?
All right, we are going to lower that student debt.
Now, my critics say, “Hey, Bernie, you’re a nice guy. You’re giving out free tuition. You’re going to lower student debt.” Where are you going to get the money?
Okay, and here is the point. I want you to think again outside of the box. This is not the dynamic that the media provides. But you’ve got to think through this stuff and you can.
Eight, nine years ago as a result of the greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street that Congress bailed out the big banks.
Apparently, apparently, there was plenty of money available to bail out large banks that were too big to fail.
Now, I believe that right now when Wall Street is doing quite well, thank you, that we should impose a tax on Wall Street speculation.
And that tax alone, that one tax alone, will bring in more than enough money to substantially lower student debt and make public colleges and universities tuition free in this country.
Now, Wall Street may not like it, but you know what? I could care less what Wall Street likes.
And by the way, when we make public colleges and universities tuition free, we do something that is really revolution. I want you to think about this for a second.
Right now, in my state and right here in West Virginia, you’ve got a lot of kids who grew up or are growing up poor, whose parents never went to college. And these kids never in a million years can imagine that they will go to college.
But if we can make it clear to the parents and the teachers and the children that any kid in this country who studies hard, who does his or her school work well, those kids will be able to get a higher education.
That is revolutionary.
Now, I want to touch on an issue that I know is controversial here in West Virginia, but it’s an issue I deal with all over the country and I am not going to tell you anything different than I say in Vermont or California.
And that is that as a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment, I have talked to scientists all over this country and all over the world, and what the scientists tell us almost unanimously is that climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already causing devastating problems in our country and around the world.
And here’s what the scientists also tell us and this is scary stuff. What they say is if we do not get our act together and transform our energy system away from fossil fuel that what we will be seeing in years to come is more drought, more flooding, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels, and more international conflict as people fight over limited natural resources.

And it seems to me that to address this issue, we’ve got to do two things.
Number one, we have a moral obligation to our kids and future generations to make certain that we leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable.
But second of all, we have a moral obligation to protect those workers in the fossil fuel industry.
We cannot leave those people in the coal industry, in oil industry, in the gas industry high and dry. We cannot do that.
And that is why we have a moral obligation to make certain that those people who may lose their jobs get new jobs and get the education and all of the benefits that they deserve.
When we think outside of the box, we have to ask ourselves some simple questions. How does it happen that every major country on Earth guarantees health care to all of their people except the United States?
I’m a member of the committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act has done a lot of good things.
But today 29 million people have no health insurance still. Many of you are under-insured with high co-payments and high deductibles. And the drug companies rip us all off by charging us the highest prices in the world.
That is why I believe we need to move toward a Medicare for all single payer system.
Think about an America where every person has a right, has health care.
What that means is you will not have to stay on your job if you don’t like that job just because you get health care on that job.
Think about going to the doctor when you’re sick, not having to worry about a co-payment or a deductible.
And think about a Medicare for all program saving the average family thousands of dollars a year on their health insurance.
And when we talk about health care, let me deal very briefly with an issue that is on the minds of all of you in West Virginia and in my state of Vermont. There is no debate but that we’ve got a tragic crisis in America today with opiate and heroin addiction.
And I know that it is a serious crisis here but trust me, it is a serious crisis in my state as well. And the issue of how we deal with it seems to me to reach the conclusion that we have got to deal with substance abuse and addiction as a health issue, not a criminal issue.

What does that mean? What it means, and again, think outside of the box, what it means is that we have got to revolutionize mental health treatment in America.
We have got to provide treatment to people when they need it, not six months from now.
And on another issue, relating to drugs, one of the problems with our criminal justice system, is that over the last 30 years millions of people have received criminal records because of possession of marijuana.
And if you have a criminal record, you know what? And you’re a kid, it is hard to go out and get a job. We have got to re-think the so-called war on drugs.
Right now, under the Federal Controlled Substance Act, marijuana is listed as a Schedule I drug next to heroin.
Now, scientists argue the pluses and minuses of marijuana, but marijuana is not heroin, which is a killer drug.
That is why I have legislation in that will take marijuana out of the Federal Controlled Substance Act.
Legalizing marijuana is a state issue; it should not be a federal crime.
Everybody here knows a profound lesson of American history, and that is that real change never takes place from the top on down. It always takes place from the bottom on up.
100 years ago, when workers in West Virginia and all over this country were forced to work seven days a week, 12 hours a day, when kids were working in the mines and the factories, working people came together to form trade unions so they can have some dignity on the job.
And that’s what happens when people come together.
100 years ago, in this country, and the kids don’t know this, women did not have the right to vote, did not have the right to get the education or the jobs they wanted. Less than 100 years ago.
But what happened? Women stood up. Women fought back. And with their male allies, they said, “You know what? In America, women will not be second class citizens.”
Hundreds of years ago, amidst the abomination of slavery, African-Americans and their allies had a different vision for America. Some of them went to jail. Some of them died. Some of them were beaten. But they said in America we will end racism, segregation, and discrimination.
If we were here in this room 10 years ago, which is no time at all from a historical perspective, and somebody jumps up and says, “You know, Bernie, I think that by the year 2015, gay marriage will be legal in 50 states in this country, the person next to him would have said, “You’re crazy. Not going to happen.”

But because the gay community and their straight allies were prepared to take on bigotry and hatred, we succeeded in making gay marriage legal.
If we were here five years ago, somebody jumps up and says, “Bernie, you know, at $7.25 federal minimum wage is a starvation wage. We have to raise that wage to $15 an hour,” the person next to her would have said, “$15 an hour? You want to more than double the minimum wage. You’re nuts. You’re thinking too big. It can’t happen. Maybe $8. Maybe $9, but $15 is too high.”
But you know what happened? Workers in the fast food industry – McDonald’s, Burger King, Wendy’s – went out on strike. They stood up and they fought back and then two years ago in Seattle, Los Angeles, San Francisco, $15 an hour minimum wage. In Oregon, in California, New York state, $15 an hour minimum wage.
What is my point? My point is that ideas today that seem so radical – raising the minimum wage, making public colleges and universities tuition-free, providing health care to all people as a right, having paid family and medical leave, ending a corrupt campaign finance system, addressing the crisis of climate change, making sure that women are paid equal pay for equal work, making sure that our kids have jobs not jail cells – all of these ideas today they seem radical. But they are not radical. They are ideas that are in fact supported by the vast majority of the American people.
But they are not supported by the billionaire class, by Wall Street, and corporate America.
What this campaign is about is asking millions of people throughout this country – working people, middle class people, young people, old people, gay people, straight people, black, white, Latino, Asian American, Native American – making certain that the Donald Trumps of the world do not divide us up.
Understanding that when we stand together – there is nothing – nothing – that we cannot accomplish.

Now, on May 10th, there is a going to be a very important primary here in West Virginia. And what we have learned in this campaign is that when there are large voter turnouts, we win. When there are low voter turnouts, we lose.
…I hope that on May 10th West Virginia will have the largest voter turnout in the history of the state.
And I hope very much that West Virginia will join the political revolution.
Thank you all very much!

I think at the end of the day, what super delegates are going to have to consider – and by the way, I hope – it’s a steep hill to climb – I hope that we will win the pledged delegates. But at the end of the day, the responsibility that super delegates have is to decide what is best for this country and what is best for the Democratic Party.
And if those super delegates conclude that Bernie Sanders is the best candidate, the strongest candidate to defeat Trump and anybody else, yes, then I would very much welcome their support.
Now, I can’t tell you – I cannot tell you and I won’t tell you – that if the independents – 3 million of them were allowed to vote – and by the way, in most polls, in most contests, we do far, far better than Clinton does in the independent vote. Sometimes we get two out of three votes.
I cannot tell you that if independents were allowed to vote in New York state, we would have won. I don’t know. No question though, we would have done much, much better.
So we walked into – I mean, not only are we taking on. I don’t mean to cry here – we know what we were getting into, we know what the rules are, we accept them, we’re doing the best that we can. But please appreciate in state after state where independents cannot vote, we are at a real disadvantage and it’s a little bit absurd because independents do vote in a general election.
So if Democrats want the strongest candidate out there to take on a Republican, I think it’s pretty dumb to be excluding independents and I hope we’ll fight – whether I win or not – to change those rules.
But to answer those questions, you know, frankly, you know in hindsight it is always – you could always think about things that you should have done better and some days I will tell you all those things. And that’s true for any campaign. I’m sure if you talk to Clinton’s campaign, they’ll tell you all of the things they could have done better.
But you know, I am enormously proud of the campaign that we have run up to this point and I hope it gets better.
Any of you here would have bet that on May 1st Bernie Sanders would have won 17 primaries and caucuses? If you had the odds that I think you would have a year ago, you wouldn’t be sitting here. You’ll be off very wealthy individuals. So we’re proud of the campaign that we ran.

And I would hope – I’m not making any predictions, nothing guaranteed here – but I think some of those super delegates who announced for Clinton even before I got into the race, will say, “You know what? Bernie has a better chance of defeating Trump, and that is what is most important.”
No, the Republican Party and Trump have the resources to do all the opposition research they want on Secretary Clinton. They don’t need Bernie Sanders’s critiques of the Secretary.
And as I have said before, when you look at a Donald Trump who wants to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the top 0.2%. A man who despite all of the scientific evidence thinks that climate change is a hoax. A man who thinks we should not raise the starvation wage – minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. I think in the general election no matter who runs against him, this man will not be a strong candidate.
And I know and you should know what Trump is trying to do – he’s trying to appeal – [inaudible]
…No, I think that’s nonsense, and I’m glad to see that he manages to get through to some media making that point.
What is a campaign about? A campaign is supposed to be about not just political gossip. It’s actually supposed to be about differentiating the points of view that candidates have.
Secretary Clinton and I have different points of view on a number of issues and I have tried my hardest to run an issue-oriented campaign, explaining to the American people the differences that we have.
Now, I may be old fashioned, but that’s kind of what I think democracy is supposed to be about.
And frankly, as you’ve heard me say a million times, I do wish media pay more attention to why the middle class in this country is disappearing, the morality of the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality, every now and then maybe mention climate change – the great environmental crisis our planet face. Every once in a while. I don’t want too much out of this.
But Trump is trying in a number of ways, I think, to tap into some of my support. If I lose the nomination, he will not get that support. If lose the nomination and we’re here to do everything that we can to win it, I will fight as hard as I can to make certain that Donald Trump does not become president of the United States…
And we have got to begin the conversation with many of the super delegates who signed on with Secretary Clinton very early on.
And if, I think, the objective evidence – and we will see – you know, we still have time to go. We’ve got to go through June 14th – but I think that if the evidence is there that we are by far the stronger candidate, I’m confident that we will win some of those folks over.

But it is not just national polls.
Everybody know that in a general election in the United States, you win the electoral vote taking place in 50 states in this country.
And if you look at virtually every battleground state, in Arizona, in Michigan, in Missouri, in New Hampshire, in North Carolina, and in many other states which are up for grabs may be won by the Democratic candidate, may be won by the Republican candidate, in every one of those states, we defeat Trump by larger margins than she does.
Further, equally important, what recent elections tell us is that when the voter turnout is high, when people come out in large numbers, Democrats and progressive win. People are excited. They come out. Young people come out. Working class people come out. People who don’t always vote come out – Democrats win.
On the other hand, Republicans win elections when the voter turnout is low and that is exactly what we saw in the last national election in 2014 when 63% of the American people didn’t vote.
There is little doubt in my mind that the energy and the excitement in this campaign is with the work we have done, and I believe that energy and that excitement among working class people, among middle class people, among young people will translate to a very large voter turnout in November, which not only will mean victory for the White House, it will mean victory for Senate races, U.S. House races, and governors’ races throughout this country.
This is an issue that I hope the super delegates will pay keen attention to.
I understand that some of them prefer Secretary Clinton – fair enough – some people prefer me – fair enough.
But at the end of the day, what every person in Philadelphia who goes to that convention understands that we must have the strongest candidate to defeat Trump or another Republican. And I think the objective evidence is that I am that candidate.
Thanks very much.
Let me start – we’ll take a few questions. We’re off to Indiana in a few minutes…
First, those super delegates in states where either candidate, Secretary Clinton or myself, has won a landslide victory, those super delegates ought to seriously reflect on whether they should cast their super delegate vote in line with the wishes of the people of their states.
But I think you’re going to have – again, we don’t know what’s going to happen in Indiana on Tuesday. We don’t know what’s going to happen to nine of the states. We don’t know what’s going to happen before with elections.
But let me put this into your mind. What happens if we do really, really well in the remaining 10 states? And what happens if the polls continue to show that Bernie Sanders is the strongest candidate against Donald Trump?
Do I believe that there will be some super delegates – how many? Nobody can tell you – that there will be some super delegates who say, “You know, I came onto the Clinton campaign even before Sanders got in. But I want to re-think this.” Because what is most important is beating Donald Trump.
If – and that’s an if, I admit – but if that scenario plays out, yeah, I do think you’re going to have a lot of super delegates who say “You know what’s most important? It is most important that we defeat Donald Trump in November.”
Hillary Clinton wins Mississippi by whatever she won it by – some huge number – yeah, super delegates there should vote for her. That’s one issue.

And let me just give you an example of what I mean by that.
In the state of Washington, we won that caucus with almost 73% of the vote there. In anybody’s definition, that is a massive landslide. But at this point, Secretary Clinton has 10 super delegates from the state of Washington; we have zero. I would ask the super delegates from the state of Washington to respect the wishes of the people in their state and the votes they have cast.
To Minnesota, we won the caucus there with 61% of the vote. Hillary Clinton has 11 super delegates. We have 3.
In Colorado, we won that state with 59% of the vote. Pretty strong margin. Secretary Clinton has 10 super delegates; we have zero.
In New Hampshire, we won that state with more than 60% of the vote. Secretary Clinton has 6 super delegates; we have zero.
And that pattern continues in other states where we have won landslide victories.
I would hope very much that the super delegates from those states where we have won with big margins or in fact where Secretary Clinton has won with big margins to respect the wishes of the people of those states and vote in line with how the people of their state voted.
Secondly and extremely importantly, Secretary Clinton and I obviously have many differences of opinion on some of the most important issues facing our country.
We disagree on trade policy, on breaking up Wall Street banks. We disagree on the minimum wage. I want to raise it to $15 an hour. She wants to raise it to $12 an hour. We disagree on whether or not we should impose a tax on carbon to deal with the crisis on climate change. I believe we should. We disagree about the extent to which the wealthy and profitable multinational corporations should be asked to pay their fair share of taxes. We disagree on fracking. I believe we have got to end fracking in this country.
We disagree on a number of other issues.
But where Secretary Clinton and I strongly agree and where every delegate to the Democratic Convention strongly agrees is that it would be a disaster for this country if Donald Trump or some other right wing Republican want to become president of the United States.
Therefore, in my view, it is incumbent upon every super delegate to take a hard and objective look at which candidate stands the better chance of defeating Donald Trump and other Republican candidates.
And in that regard, I think the evidence is extremely clear that I would be the stronger candidate to defeat Trump or any other Republican. And this is not just on the subjective opinion of Bernie Sanders. I’m not here to just tell you this is what I think, this is what I believe.
I think this is really what the objective evidence tells us. And this is based on every national and state poll done in the last several months.
Now, I know that polls go up and down. But when you have poll after poll after poll nationally saying that Sanders can defeat Trump by a – in some cases – a much greater margin than Clinton can, I think it’s worth paying attention to that.
In a Morning Consult survey, we beat Trump by 16 points. She beats him by 7. These are very recent polls.
In an IBD poll, we beat Trump by 12. She beats him by 7.
USA Today poll, we beat Trump by 15. She beats him by 11.
A George Washington University poll, we beat him by 10, she beat him by 3.
Fox News has us beating Trump by 14. She beats him by 7.

Bernie Sanders:
People know – whether you’re conservative or progressive – that a corrupt campaign finance system with super PACs undermining American democracy.
They understand there is something fundamentally wrong when the average American is working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
They understand that we have a broken criminal justice system with more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
They understand that we have got to deal with the planetary crisis of climate change and among other things impose a tax on carbon.
They understand that at a time we have a major crisis – growing crisis – with regard to clean water, we need to end fracking.
They understand that in a competitive global economy, we need to make public colleges and universities tuition-free and they understand that when you have a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality, yes, large profitable corporations and the top 1% are going to have to pay more in taxes.
Let me now just say a few words about delegate math and our path toward victory.
As all of you know, there are a total of 4,766 Democratic delegates. 4,047 are pledged – i.e. they come out as a result of the contest in the various states – 719 are super delegates.
A Democratic candidate needs 2,383 votes in order to win the Democratic nomination.
Let me be very clear. It is virtually impossible for Secretary Clinton to reach the majority of convention delegates by June 14. That is the last day that a primary will be held. With pledged delegates alone.
In other words, once more, it is virtually impossible for Secretary Clinton to reach the majority of convention delegates by June 14 with pledged delegates alone.
She will need super delegates to take her over the top at the convention in Philadelphia.
In other words, the convention will be a contested contest.
Currently, Secretary Clinton has 1,645 pledged delegates. 55% of the total.
We have 1,318 pledged delegates. 45% of the total.
There are 10 states remaining where we’re going to be vigorously competing. Plus, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. We believe that we are in a very strong position to win many of these remaining contests and we have an excellent chance to win in California – the state with far and away the most delegates.
For us to win the majority of pledged delegates, we need to win 710 out of the remaining 1,083. That is 65% of the remaining pledged delegates.
That is admittedly – and I do not deny it for a second – a tough road to climb but it is not an impossible road to climb.
And we intend to fight for every vote in front of us and for every delegate remaining.
In terms of super delegates, I would just like to say the following:
Obviously, we are taking on virtually the entire Democratic establishment. And it’s amazing to me and I just have to thank our volunteers that we go into state after state – you’ve got the senators and you’ve got the governors and you’ve got the mayors – all of them know how to get out the vote. And yet in 17 primaries and caucuses, despite all of that political establishment support, we have won.
Now, of the 719 super delegates, many of those delegates committed themselves to Secretary Clinton even before we got into this campaign. In other words, way back when she was the anointed candidate, and they said we’re with Hillary Clinton. While she has 520 super delegates, we have all of 39 super delegates.
In other words, while we have won 45% of the pledged delegates in real campaigns where the people have spoken, we’ve won 45% – we have won only 7% of the super delegates.
Two points regarding that.

We announced the beginning of our campaign a year ago. And before I talk about the delegate math and our path toward victory, I just want to say a few words about how far we have come in the last year.
And I just want to thank the millions and millions of people who have supported us in every way.
When we started this campaign, as most of you know, we were considered to be a fringe candidacy.
We started with no campaign organization. We started with no money. We started with very little name recognition outside of my own state of Vermont.
In national polls, we were trailing Secretary Clinton by at least 60 points and in some cases a little bit more.
In this campaign, we have taken on the entire Democratic establishment. In state after state we have taken on the senators, the members of the Congress, the governors, the mayors. We have taken them all on.
And in the Clinton organization, obviously, we are taking on the most powerful political organization in this country – an organization that has won two presidential elections with Bill Clinton and ran a very strong campaign with Hillary Clinton in 2008.
That is what we were up against. That was then. Today is today.
As of today, we have now won 17 primaries and caucuses in every part of the country. And by the way, we hope to make Indiana our 18th victory on Tuesday. And we have received some 9 million votes.
In recent national polls, we’re not behind Secretary Clinton by 60 points any more. In the last few weeks actually there have been a couple of polls that have us in the lead. Other polls have us single digits behind.
In terms of fundraising, we have received more individual campaign contributions – 7.4 million – than any candidate in presidential history at this point in a campaign.
We do not have a super PAC. We do not get our money from Wall Street or the drug companies or powerful corporations.
Our money is coming from the middle class or the working class of this country, averaging $27 a campaign contribution.
And I’m very proud of the fact that we have just raised in the last month – we had a phenomenally good month – we’ve raised over $25 million despite the fact that 80% of the primary and caucuses are behind us.
What the political revolution has shown is that we can run a strong, winning campaign without a super PAC and without being dependent on big money interest.
As of today – and I don’t know if anyone else has done it, maybe they have, maybe they haven’t, I don’t know that – but we have brought out more than 1.1 million people to our rallies from Maine to California and that number will go up very significantly because we intend to have a number of major rallies in the state of California.
And very importantly, we have won in state after state a strong majority of the votes of younger people, voters under 45 years of age.
In other words, the ideas that we are fighting for are the future of the Democratic Party and in fact the future of this country.
And again, I’m not just talking about people 23 years of age and younger where we’re doing phenomenally well and very proud of that. We’re talking about people 45 years of age or younger.
And the reason for that I believe is that the issues that we are talking about are the issues that are on the minds of the American people.

Whoa! Thank you! Thank you, Salem!
…Thank you! Salem, thank you!
And it sure sounds like Salem, Oregon is ready for the political revolution!
This is a great turnout, and I want to thank all of you for being here.
Let me begin by giving you all some pretty good news.
Last week, last week we won a really great victory in Indiana. And tonight, it appears that we’ve won a big, big victory in West Virginia!
And with your help, we’re going to win in Oregon next week.
And I want to take a moment to thank the people of West Virginia for a tremendous victory. I think it ends up being a double-digit victory tonight. And this is a state – West Virginia – where Hillary Clinton won by over 40 points against Barack Obama in 2008.
West Virginia is a working class state and like many other states in this country, including Oregon, working people are hurting.
And what the people of West Virginia said tonight and I believe the people of Oregon and Kentucky will say next week is that we need an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1%.
People of this country are sick and tired of working two or three jobs. They are tired of working longer hours for lower wages. They are worried to death about the future of their kids. And they do not want to see almost all new wealth and income going to the top 1%.

The people of West Virginia, of Kentucky, of Oregon want an economy that works for all of us.
They want to have the United States join every other major country and guarantee health care to all people as a right.
They want to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and create 13 million jobs.
And the people of West Virginia and the people of Kentucky and the people of Oregon understand that in the year 2016 we have got to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
And at a time of massive income and wealth inequality where the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%, the people of Oregon and Kentucky and West Virginia know that it is high time for the wealthy and large corporations to start paying their fair share of taxes.
With our victory tonight in West Virginia, we have now won primaries and caucuses in 19 states.
And let me be as clear as I can be. We are in this campaign to win the Democratic nomination.
And we are going to fight for every last vote in Oregon, Kentucky, California, the Dakotas.
Now, we fully acknowledge – we are good at arithmetic – that we have an uphill climb ahead of us. But we are used to fighting uphill climbs.
We have been fighting uphill from the first day of this campaign when people considered us a fringe candidacy.

And our message to the Democratic delegates who will be assembling in Philadelphia is while we may have many disagreements with Secretary Clinton, there is one area we agree and that is we must defeat Donald Trump.
And I am very happy to tell you we will defeat Donald Trump.
And if you look over the last month or six weeks in every nation poll, Bernie Sanders defeats Donald Trump by big numbers.
But it is not only national polls where we defeat Trump by bigger numbers than Secretary Clinton. It is state poll after state poll after state poll.
Just in the last day, two national polls have us beating Trump by bigger margins than Secretary Clinton. Four statewide polls – in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Florida, and New Hampshire – in every one of those polls, we beat Trump or do better against Trump than does Secretary Clinton.
But the reason that our campaign is the strongest campaign against Trump is not just the polls. It is that our campaign is generating the energy and the enthusiasm that we need to have a large voter turnout in November.
Democrats and progressive win national elections when the voter turnout is high, when millions of people are prepared to stand up and fight back. That is what our campaign is all about.
I am very proud to tell you that taking on virtually the entire Democratic establishment – senators and governors and members of Congress and mayors.
Despite all of that opposition, we have now received well over 45% of the pledged delegates.
And if we do well in the coming weeks in Oregon, in California, in New Jersey, in Kentucky and the other states, we still have that road to victory in winning the majority of pledged delegates.
Let me mention something else that doesn’t get a lot of attention but that I am very, very proud of. In virtually every primary and caucus, we win the significant majority of people 45 years of age and younger.
Now, the truth is that we are going to work on this. We have to do better with older voters.

And we are going to do better with voters.
But when we win, in state after state, a significant majority of younger voters.
What that tells me and I think it tells the American people our vision of economic, social, racial, and environmental justice is the future of America. Our vision is the future of America and the future of the Democratic Party.
Now, Donald Trump is not going to become president for a number of reasons. And the major reason is that the American people understand that we cannot have a president who has insulted Latinos and Mexicans, who has insulted Muslims, who everyday is insulting women in one way or another, who has insulted veterans like John McCain and others, who has insulted African-Americans in a very profound way.
People sometimes forget that before Mr. Trump was running for president, he was one of the leaders of the so-called birther movement. And that movement was a very ugly effort to de-legitimize the presidency of the first African-American president in our history.
Mr. Trump will not become president because the American people understands that our strength is in our diversity, that we are a great nation because we are black and white and Latino and Asian-American and Native-Americans.
We are a great nation because we are gay and we are straight.
We are a great nation because we are women and men.
And our greatness and our strength is when we come together as one proud people.
And the American people understand that bringing us together always trumps dividing us up.
And the American people understand that we are great when we support each other. When your family is hurting, my family has got to be there for you.
…

And when my family hurts, you have got to help us.
America is about not tolerating a situation in which children go hungry or veterans sleep out on the street.
And the American people understand that supporting each other always trumps selfishness.
And the American people also understand a very profound lesson taught to us by every major religion on Earth, whether it is Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, whatever. And that profound message is that at the end of the day love always trumps hatred.
Our campaign has now won primaries and caucuses in 19 states because we are doing something very unusual in American politics. We are treating the American people like intelligent human beings, and we are telling them the truth even when the truth is unpleasant.
I have always believed that it is far more important to deal with unpleasant truths than just to sweep them under the rug.
And let me discuss with you some of the truths that we have got to address as Americans.
Number one, men and women fought and died to help preserve American democracy. And we owe our veterans a debt of gratitude that we can never repay.
And that is why I regarded as appalling that today we have a campaign finance system, which is corrupt and undermining American democracy.
Democracy is not a complicated idea. It means one person, one vote. You get a vote. You get a vote. And you get a vote.
Democracy does not mean billionaires buying elections. Democracy does not mean Wall Street and the wealthiest people in this country contributing massive amounts of money into Super PACs.
Democracy does not mean Republican governors suppressing the votes.
And that is why together we are going to overturn this disastrous Supreme Court decision on Citizens United and why we are going to move toward public funding of elections.
I believe passionately in democracy and what that means is if you are a progressive, a moderate or a conservative – I don’t care what your ideology is – you should have the right to run for office without begging millionaires for campaign contributions.

I want this country to have the highest rate of voter turnout of any country on Earth, not one of the lowest…[inaudible]
But it’s not just a corrupt campaign finance system and the Super PACs that we have got to deal with. It is the fact that we live in a rigged economy.
Now, for fairly obvious reasons, you’re not going to see much of this discussion on television. But here are some unpleasant realities that we as a nation are going to have to address and that is we have more income and wealth inequality than almost any major country on Earth and it is worse today – that inequality – than any time since 1928.
In America today – I want you to hear this because you’re not going to see it on TV. You may as well hear it here. And that is the top 0.1% – 0.1% – now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
In America today, the 20 wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million Americans.
In America today, one family – the Walton family of Walmart – owns more wealth than the bottom 40% of the American people. One family.
And here is what a rigged economy really means. The Waltons own Walmart – the largest private sector company in this country – but they pay their workers wages that are so low that many of their employees are forced to go on food stamps and Medicaid. And you know who pays for those food stamps and Medicaid? You do.
It seems to me to be a little absurd for working families to have to subsidize the wealthiest family in this country.
And I say to the Walton family – and by the way, one of the Waltons made a campaign contribution to Secretary Clinton of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
I say to that family maybe instead of making large campaign contributions to Secretary Clinton pay your workers a living wage.
But we have got to deal with not just a declining and disappearing middle class, not just the fact that we have over 20% of our children living in poverty, not just that we have a corrupt campaign finance system. We also have a broken criminal justice system.

There is something very, very wrong in this country when we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
We are spending $80 billion a year to lock up 2.2 million Americans. That has got to change.
And one of the reasons that we have so many people in jail is that in many of our inner cities and many of our rural communities, you have youth unemployment of 30%, 40%, 50% – white kids, Latino kids, African-American kids – who have no jobs and have no education. And when you hang out on street corners, bad things happen.
And that is why I believe and if elected president we will implement investing in our young people in jobs and education, not jails or incarceration.
You know, we have been criticized – our campaign has been criticized because we think too big, we are too radical.
Well, I’ll tell you this: Maybe it’s a radical idea. Maybe it’s not. But I want this country to have the best educated population, not more people in jail than any other country.
And when we talk about reforming criminal justice, it is also important to deal with local police departments all across this country.
Now, I was a mayor of Burlington, Vermont, and we want all of you to come visit us in Vermont. Like Oregon, it is a beautiful state. You’ll enjoy it. I was a mayor there for eight years and I worked with our police department, not only in Burlington but throughout our state, and I’ve worked with police officers throughout this country.
Vast majority of police officers are honest and hardworking and have a very difficult job.
But when a police officer like any other public official breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
We have got to de-militarize local police departments.
We have got to make police departments reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.
We have got to end corporate ownership of prisons and detention centers.
We have got to create a culture in this country which says to police departments lethal force – killing people – is the last resort, not the first resort.
We have got to re-think the so-called war on drugs. In the last 30 years, millions of Americans have received police records for possession of marijuana. And if you’re a young person trying to get a job, having that police record is a real serious issue.
And that is why I believe that right now in the Federal Controlled Substance Act lists marijuana as a Schedule I drug right alongside of heroin, that is crazy.

And that is why if elected president, we will take marijuana out of the Federal Controlled Substance Act.
And when we talk about drugs, let me tell you, we have a major, major crisis in this country in terms of opioid addiction and in terms of heroin addiction and drug abuse, substance abuse.
To my mind the most effective way to treat that crisis – and it is a crisis because people are overdosing every single day and dying – what we have got to do is understand that…[inaudible]…a [mental] health issue, not a criminal issue.
And that is why we need a revolution in mental health treatment in this country.
If you are…[inaudible]…should be able to get the help you need today, not six months from today.
We are also facing a very serious crisis in suicide in this country.
And when people are suicidal or when they are homicidal – and I don’t have to tell the people of Oregon about mass killings – we need to make sure that people who have mental crises get the help they need when they need it.
This campaign is going to win because we are listening to the American people and not just the wealthy campaign contributors.
We are listening to workers who tell me they cannot make it on $8 or $9 an hour. We need to raise the minimum wage nationally to $15 an hour.
And when we talk about equitable wages, we are going to make sure that women do not continue to earn 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. And I know that every man here with stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
This campaign is listening to seniors and disabled veterans and the veterans community in general. And what they are telling me is that no senior, no disabled veteran can make it on $10,000, $11,000 a year Social Security.
Republicans want to cut Social Security benefits. Well, we have some bad news for them.
We’re not going to cut Social Security for the elderly and the disabled. We’re going to expand Social Security benefits.

This campaign is listening to young people.
And when we think outside of the box and outside of the status quo, we have to ask ourselves a very simple question.
How does it happen that when young people do exactly the right thing and go out and get the best education they can, why do they end up with $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 of debt?
Think about it for one second and you conclude that’s nuts. It’s nuts!
We want to encourage our people to get the most and best education that they can.
We should not be punishing people for getting an education. We should be rewarding them.
And that is why we’re going to do two things.
Number one, we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition free.
Number two, for the millions of people – and how many people here tonight are dealing with student debt?
What we are going to do is allow people with student debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
And we’re going to pay for that through a tax on Wall Street speculation.
This country bailed out Wall Street when their greed and illegal behavior drove this nation into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Now it is Wall Street’s time to help the middle class of this country.
This campaign is listening to our African-American brothers and sisters. And they are asking me how does it happen that we have trillions of dollars to spend on a war in Iraq we never should have gotten into but supposedly we do not have the money to rebuild crumbling inner cities in this country?
If elected president, together, we’re going to be changing our national priorities. We’re not going to be rebuilding infrastructure in Iraq. We’re going to be rebuilding inner cities in America…
This campaign is listening to our Latino brothers and sisters. There are 11 million undocumented people in this country. We need comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
This campaign is listening to people whose pain is almost never heard and that is the Native American community.
Everyone here knows that from before the time this country became a country, the Native American people were lied to, they were cheated, and treaties they negotiated were broken.

And yet, the Native American people have provided us with so much. We have a debt to them that we can never, ever repay.
And one of the most important things that they have taught us is that as human beings we are part of nature, we must coexist with nature.
And that if we continue as we are doing today if we continue to destroy nature, we are ultimately destroying the human species.
And yet today, on reservations and in Native American communities, poverty and unemployment and suicide rates are sky high.
If elected president, we are going to profoundly change our relationship to the Native American people.
When we think big and not small, when we think outside of the status quo, we ask ourselves a very simple question. How does it happen that the United States is the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care to all people as a right?
…The Affordable Care Act has done some good things but we have got to do more.
And what this campaign is about in all respects is making the American people understand what we have and should have as Americans.
Everyday the media tells us and the establishment tells us “Think small. Imagine do you really think you are entitled to health care as a right? Who do you think you are?”
Well, I kind of think that if the people in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Holland, Scandinavia, and Canada can have health care as a right? You know what? I do think that the American people are entitled to health care.
And I want you to think big and think about this. When we pass a Medicare for all health care system, what it means – anybody who goes to the doctor when they have to go to the doctor, not worry about a deductible or a copayment.
And when we pass a Medicare for all system, we will not continue to be ripped off by the drug companies who charge us the highest prices in the world.
And when we pass a Medicare for all system, it will mean that millions of people no longer have to stay on jobs they don’t like simply because they’re getting good health insurance.
Think for a moment what it will mean to our economy when we unleash the entrepreneurial spirit of millions of people who can leave their jobs now and go out and start new businesses.

And not have to worry about whether they’re going to have health insurance or not.
I want to for a moment talk about a few of the differences that exist between Secretary Clinton and myself.
Secretary Clinton thinks we should raise the minimum wage to $12 an hour. Not good enough! We need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
I am a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment. Let me tell you climate change is real and for the sake of our children and future generations we are going to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel.
And one way to do that – maybe the most important way is to have a tax on carbon. That is my view. That is not Secretary Clinton’s view.
In fact, when she was Secretary of State she pushed fracking technology on countries throughout the world.
I believe that the issue of clean water is going to become one of the most significant global issues that we face in our country and throughout the world.
And that is why I believe we have got to end fracking. That is not Secretary Clinton’s view.
Foreign policy, as you know, and military policy is a very important part of what a president does.
The most important foreign policy debate in the modern history of this country was over the war in Iraq.
I voted against the war in Iraq. Secretary Clinton supported the war in Iraq.
If we are going to rebuild a declining middle class, we need to revamp our trade policies.
I voted against virtually all – I voted against every one of these disastrous trade agreements. Secretary Clinton supported virtually all of them.
And on and on it goes.
At this moment in American history, we need a president who has the history and the courage to take on the billionaire class, and I don’t think there’s any debate of who that candidate is.
Everyone here knows who has studied American history that real change always takes place from the bottom on up, never from the top on down.
That is the history of workers’ struggle, immigration, and trade unions. It is the history of the civil rights movement. It is the history of the women’s movement.
Let’s not forget 100 years ago, women did not have the right to vote, to get the education, or the jobs they wanted.

Women stood up and fought back.
And they and their male allies say women will not be second class citizens in the United States.
And that is the history of the gay movement and gay rights in this country.
Against incredible bigotry and hatred, the gay community and their straight allies said that in America people should have the right to love whoever they want regardless of their gender.
And here we are today. Today in a nation faced by enormous crises and once again millions of people are going to have to come together, stand up, and fight back and create a government which works for all of us, not just the 1%.
And that is what this campaign is about. No president, not Bernie Sanders or anyone else can do it alone. We have got to do it together.
And in that regard, I want to thank your Senator, Jeff Merkley. There are 100 people in the U.S. Senate. Jeff is the only member of the U.S. Senate to support our campaign and I thank him for that.
Next Tuesday, there is going to be an enormously important Democratic primary here in Oregon.
What I have found out throughout this campaign is when the voter turnout is high, we do well; we win.
Next Tuesday here in Oregon, let us have the highest voter turnout in Oregon Democratic primary history.
And let the great state of Oregon, the progressive state of Oregon, go on record as saying yes we want a political revolution.
Thank you all very much!

…Let me also take this opportunity to say a word of thanks to the people of Kentucky. In a closed primary – something I am not all that enthusiastic about – where independents are not allowed to vote, where Secretary Clinton defeated Barack Obama by 250,000 votes in 2008, it appears tonight that we’re going to end up with about half of the delegates from Kentucky.
I want to thank you all for coming out because this is in a sense the beginning of the final push to win California.
When we – and by the way, I should tell you that there are a lot of people out there – many of the pundits and politicians they say, “Bernie Sanders should drop out. The people of California should not have the right to determine who the next president will be,” well, let me be as clear as I can be. I agree with you – we are in ’til the last ballot is cast.
You know, when we began this campaign a little over a year ago, we were 60 points behind Secretary Clinton in the polls. We had no political organization. No money, very little name recognition. The media and the pundits determined that we were a fringe candidacy. And nobody thought that this campaign was going anywhere.
And on top of all of that, we were taking on the most powerful political organization in the country – an organization that elected Bill Clinton twice and ran a strong campaign for Hillary Clinton in 2008.
Well, a lot has changed in the last year.
As of today, we have won 19 state primaries and caucuses and over nine million votes.
No one can predict the future, but I think we have a real shot to win primaries in a number of the states that will be coming up.
And don’t tell Secretary Clinton – she might get nervous. I think we’re going to win here in California. And as all of you know, California has 475 pledged delegates.
And let me mention something else. I am especially proud that in I believe every primary and caucus – those we won and those we lost – we have received a significant majority of the votes of young people.
And by the way, you know, one of the things about getting older, the older you get – you know – people who are older appear to be younger. That’s what it is. So we are winning people 45 years of age or younger.
And what tells me is that our vision – a vision of social justice, economic justice, racial justice, and environmental justice – that is the future of this country.

As of today, I am proud to tell you that taking on virtually the entire Democratic establishment – almost all of the senators, the members of the House, mayors, governors – we have won over 45% of the pledged delegates.
And in a couple of weeks, if we can win big in New Jersey, New Mexico, North and South Dakota, Montana, California, we have the possibility – it will be a steep climb. I recognize that. But we have the possibility of going to Philadelphia with a majority of the pledged delegates.
Now some people say that we’ve got a steep hill to climb to do that and that is absolutely true.
But you know what? Together, we have been climbing that steep hill from day one in this campaign.
And we’re going to continue to fight for every last vote until June 14th and then we’re going to take our fight into the convention.
You know, there is a lot of discussion about the role of Super PACs. And I am very proud to tell you that I’m the only candidate running for president who does not have a Super PAC.
We made a decision when we began this campaign that we were not going to beg Wall Street or corporate America or billionaires for campaign contributions.
And as of today, without a Super PAC, we have received almost eight million individual campaign contributions.
Anybody know what that average contribution is? That’s right – $27.
And what that shows the world at a time when big money is dominating our political process that you can run a strong, winning national campaign without begging billionaires for campaign contributions.
Let me also mention something that a lot of people may not be aware of and that is that virtually every national and state poll taken in the last six weeks, in all of those polls, we are defeating Donald Trump.
And not only are we defeating Trump in most cases by double digits, in almost every case whether it is a national poll or a state poll, we do much better against Trump than does Secretary Clinton.
A poll just came out – I think it was yesterday – in the state of Georgia – not a very good state for us – Trump was beating Secretary Clinton by four points; we were beating him by five points.

If the Democratic Party wants to be certain that Donald Trump is defeated – and that we must do – we together are the campaign to do that.
And it is not just the polls. Polls go up; polls go down. What it is is that our campaign has the energy and the enthusiasm and the grassroots capability to make certain that in November in the general election, we have a huge voter turnout.
Here is a political truism. When the voter turnout is low and people are demoralized and don’t come out to vote, Republicans win. When there is excitement and energy and people are prepared to stand up and fight back, progressives and Democrats win. That is our campaign.
I don’t have to explain to anybody here that the American people will not elect a candidate like Donald Trump who insults Mexicans and Latinos, who insults Muslims, who insults women and veterans, and who is a leader of the so-called birther movement tried to de-legitimize the presidency of our first African-American president.
We will not accept as president a man who wants to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to billionaire families like his but who has told us that we don’t have to worry about raising the starvation minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.
We will not accept a president who recklessly talks about using nuclear weapons and who changes his mind everyday on every issue.
Let me also say a word to the leadership of the Democratic Party. And that is that the Democratic Party is going to have to make a very, very profound and important decision. It can do the right thing and open its doors and welcome into the party people who are prepared to fight for real economic and social change.
That is the Democratic Party I want to see…People who are willing to take on Wall Street, to take on corporate greed, and to take on a fossil fuel industry, which is destroying this planet.
So I say to the leadership of the Democratic Party, open the doors, let the people in.

Or the other option for the Democratic Party, which I see is a very sad and tragic option is to choose to maintain its status quo structure, remain dependent on big money campaign contributions, and be a party with limited participation and limited energy.
And a party which incredibly is allowing a right-wing extremist Republican Party to capture the votes of a majority of working people in this country.
Now, I come from the working class of this country and I will be damned if we will allow the Republican Party whose job is to represent the rich and the powerful to win the votes of working class Americans.
…Let me say a word about why I think this campaign is doing so well. And you know why? Because we are doing something very unusual. We are telling the American people the truth.
And here is a very important truth. If we as a nation do not get our act together, this great nation is going to slip into an oligarchic form of society where a handful of billionaires control our political and economic life.
Let me tell you how absurd it is. Just announced the other day the Koch brothers – second wealthiest family in America, a family worth tens of billions of dollars, extremely right wing – are contributing over $40 million to try to make the United States Senate stay Republican. $40 million.
And here is what is even crazier. A guy name Sheldon Adelson, also one of the wealthiest people in America. This is a billionaire who is prepared to contribute huge sums of money to another billionaire named Donald Trump.
The American people are sick and tired of billionaires running our economy and our political life.
Together, we are going to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision.
And we’re going to move toward public funding of elections.
I want this country to be a vibrant democracy, and that means whether you’re a progressive, conservative, or moderate, if you want to run for office, you should not have beg millionaires for campaign contributions.
I want this country to have one of the highest voting turnout rates in the world, not one of the lowest.
But before we will have the opportunity to defeat Donald Trump, we’re going to have to defeat Secretary Clinton.

A campaign is about issues and ideas and let me very briefly and straightforwardly tell you some of the differences between Secretary Clinton and myself.
Number one, I am proud to tell you, I don’t have a Super PAC and I don’t get money from Wall Street and other special interests.
Secretary Clinton has a number of Super PACs and in the last filing period reported receiving $15 million from Wall Street. Our job is to take on Wall Street, not to take their money.
Federal minimum of $7.25 is a starvation wage. Secretary Clinton wants to raise that to $12 an hour. That’s okay. But it is not good enough…We’re talking about a fight for $15 an hour.
And I’m proud to tell you I have been on the picket line with those workers. They are standing up and fighting for a living wage and all of us will stand with them.
My wife just tells me that CNN has called Oregon for Bernie Sanders.
You know, we won a great victory in the state of Washington a few months ago. We just won Oregon. And we’re going to win California. I am getting to like the West Coast.
This campaign when we talk about equitable wages, it is not just as you know raising the minimum wage to a living wage; it is also ending the disgrace of women making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
And together I know that every man here will stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
I am member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the environment, and I will tell you what all of you know and that is that climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and as everybody in California knows, it is already causing devastating problems.

You in California have witnessed the devastating impact of climate change with your own eyes.
You have seen historic wildfires, which scorched 118,000 acres of land here in California in 2014.
You have seen massive mudslides. You have seen rising sea levels. You experienced a massive heat wave in 2006.
We have a moral obligation – a moral obligation – to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
In my view, if we are prepared to be aggressive in transforming our energy system, we need a tax on carbon.
We cannot allow within impunity the fossil fuel industry to destroy our planet. I believe in a tax on carbon because I see climate change as one of the great global crises that we face. Secretary Clinton does not support a tax on carbon.
One of the great crises that we are beginning to see unfold is whether or not in our country and around the world we will have the clean drinking water that our people need.
And that is why I believe we should move to a ban on fracking. That is my view. Unfortunately, it is not Secretary Clinton’s view. In fact, when she was Secretary of State, she pushed fracking technology onto countries around the world.
The great foreign policy debate – the most important debate – that we have had in the modern history of our country centered around Iraq and whether to go into Iraq.
I listened very closely to what President Bush and Dick Cheney and the others had to say. I voted against that war. Secretary Clinton voted for that war.
I believe that when you have a handful of large financial institutions on Wall Street, institutions who have a business model of fraud, institutions which through their illegal behavior and their greed drove this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. I believe that now is the time to break them up. That is my view. That is not Secretary Clinton’s view.
One of the reasons that the middle class of this country has been in decline for the last 35 years has to do with the disastrous trade policy which has ended up shutting down thousands of factories in America as companies shut down here, threw workers out on the street, and moved to China and other low-wage countries.

I voted against every one of those disastrous trade agreements. Secretary Clinton supported almost all of them.
What this campaign is about is whether or not we are going to create an economy that works for all of us or an economy that continues to work for the 1%.
It is not acceptable to me that in America today, we have more income and wealth inequality than any other major country on Earth. It’s worse now than at any time since 1928. It is not acceptable that the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
It is not acceptable to me that in my state of Vermont and here in California and all over this country, we have millions of people who are working not one job but two jobs and three jobs to cobble together the income and health care they need.
And yet, when mom works, dad works, and the kids work, it ends up that 58% of all new income goes to the top 1%. That is not acceptable.
This campaign is listening to the American people and not just to wealthy campaign contributors.
This campaign is listening to young people, and young people are asking me how does it happen that when they do the right thing, when they go out and get the best education they can they end up $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 in debt?
We should not be punishing people for getting an education; we should reward them.
40, 50 years ago, if you had a high school degree, you were in pretty good shape. You could go out, get yourself a good job. Those days by and large are gone.
We have a changing economy, changing technology, and a changing global economy. We need to have the best educated workforce in the world.
And that means that when we think about public education, it’s not good enough now just to think about first grade through twelfth grade. We need to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
I want every kid in California in the fourth grade, in the sixth grade, kids in Vermont to understand that if they study hard and take school seriously, no matter what the income of their family is, they will be able to get a college education.
How many people here are carrying student debt right now? I have talked to people all over this country – people $50,000, $100,000 in debt. For what crime did they commit? They went out and got a decent education. That is crazy stuff.
So we are going to give people with student debt the right to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they could find.

And people say – my critics say – “Bernie, you know, you’re Santa Claus. You’re giving away free tuition. You’re going to lower student debt. How are you going to pay for it?”
I will tell you exactly how we’re going to pay for it.
2009 Congress against my vote bailed out the crooks on Wall Street. Today, Wall Street is doing just fine. And I think it’s appropriate to impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. And that tax will more than pay for free tuition at public colleges and universities and lowering student debt.
Now Wall Street doesn’t like that idea. And I say, “So what?”
If we win this election, Wall Street and the other people who now run this country are going to learn a very profound lesson and that is they will not continue to “get it all”.
I am sick and tired of the greed of corporate America and the greed of Wall Street. We need a new moral compass in this country.
You know, Pope Francis talks about a moral economy – a moral economy – and I agree with him. That is what we need.
This campaign is listening to our Latino brothers and sisters.
My father came to this country at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket, so I know a little bit about the immigrant experience.
There are 11 million undocumented people in this country today. Many of them are being exploited on the job because when you don’t have legal rights – when you don’t have legal rights – you can’t stand up and protect yourself.
And that is why I believe we must pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
And that is why I believe we must stop immediately the current deportation policies.
And if Congress does not do its job, I will use the executive powers of the presidency to do what’s right.
This campaign is listening to our brothers and sisters in the African-American community. And they are asking me a very simple but important question: How does it happen that this country has trillions of dollars to spend on a war in Iraq we never should have [fought]…but somehow we don’t have the available funds to rebuild our inner cities?
I have been to Flint, Michigan and visited with parents whose children have been poisoned by lead in the water.

I have been to Detroit, Michigan where their public school system is on the verge of fiscal collapse.
I have been to Baltimore, Maryland, where tens of thousands of people are addicted to drugs and don’t have the treatments available to get them off that heroin.
We as a nation together are going to change our national priorities. We are going to rebuild our inner cities, build affordable housing, create decent schools for our children.
And this campaign is listening to a people whose pain is almost never heard and that is our Native American brothers and sisters.
We owe the first Americans a debt of gratitude that we can never repay. They have taught us so much, including the very important lesson that as human beings all of us are part of nature. We must live with nature. And we cannot continue to destroy nature because if we destroy nature, we are destroying ourselves.
Together, this campaign and our presidency are going to reform a broken criminal justice system. It is not acceptable I believe to any of us that we have 2.2 million people in jail today – more than any other country on Earth.
Instead of seeing kids around this country in inner cities or in rural America experience 40% or 50% unemployment rates, we are going to put those kids to work in good jobs, and we’re going to invest in education for them, not jails or incarceration.
We want this country to be the best educated country on Earth, not the country with more people in jail.
What this campaign is about is thinking outside of the box, outside of the status quo.
Every other major country on Earth, whether it’s the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Scandinavia, Canada, every major country guarantees health care to all of their people as a right.
The Affordable Care Act has done some very good things, but we have a lot more to do.
I believe from the deepest part of my soul that health care is a right, not a privilege.
Today, we have 29 million people with no insurance, even more who are under-insured with large deductibles and co-payments. And every one of us is getting ripped off by the greed of the drug companies.
Pharmaceutical industry charges us by far the highest prices in the world for the medicine that we need.
And by the way, on the ballots in November here in California, you’re going to have a proposition making sure that California can control the outrageously high cost of prescription drugs.
I congratulate those people who put that item on the ballot. Let’s pass it.

Together, we will end the fact that we are the only major country without healthcare-for-all, that we pay far, far more per capita for health care than any other country. We’re going to end that by passing a Medicare for all health care system.
Now, the insurance companies may not like it. The drug companies may not like it. But the American people do like it and that’s what we’ve got to do.
This campaign understands a very, very important historical lesson and that lesson is that no real change has ever occurred in our country from the top on down; it has always been from the bottom on up.
Think back. Think back 100, 120 years ago when workers in this country were forced to work seven days a week, 14-hour days, they had no rights on the job. Think about the children 10, 11 years of age losing their fingers in factories.
And what the working people of this country said, “Sorry, we are human beings. We’re not beasts of burden. We’re going to form trade unions and negotiate contracts.” And I thank the trade union movement for creating the American middle class.
Think about 150 years ago in the midst of the abomination of slavery, there were African-Americans and their allies who were prepared to go to jail, to get beaten, to get lynched, who stood up and said the day will come in this country when we will end racism and bigotry and segregation.
And over the years, millions of people were engaged in that struggle.
Think about where we were as a country 100 years ago. Not such a long time ago. 100 years ago women in America did not have the right to vote, could not get the education or the jobs they wanted.
But women stood up and fought back. Women stood up to the establishment, which said to them “Your job is to stay home and have babies.” But women said, “You will not define us. We will define ourselves.”
And women and their male allies said loudly and clearly, women in America will not be second class citizens.
If we were here 10 years ago, no time at all, somebody jumps up and says “You know, Bernie, I think that say by the year 2015 gay marriage will be legal in every state in this country.” If somebody said that, the person next to her would have said, “You are nuts. Wouldn’t happen.”
But what happened is the gay community and their straight allies stood up against incredible bigotry against all kinds of abuse and they said together that in this country people should have the right to love whoever they want regardless of their gender.
And let me give you a more contemporary example. If five years ago, somebody here stood up and said “Bernie, this $7.25 minimum wage, that’s really awful. It’s terrible. We’ve got to raise it to $15 an hour.” The person next to him would have said, “$15 an hour? You’re thinking too radically. You’re an extremist.”
But then what happened? We got some of them here. Workers in the fast food industry went out on strike.
Workers in McDonald’s and in Burger King and in Wendy’s and in Subway and in all these places, they told their community and they told the world they cannot live on $7.25 an hour. And then you know what happened after the strikes and the demonstrations? In Seattle, here in Los Angeles, in San Francisco, $15 an hour.
And if I have anything to say about it and I will as president, $15 bucks an hour in every state in this country.

What is my point? …I think you got my point but I want to – I want you to think about this. Throughout history, people looked around them.
And if they were a worker working seven days a week with no power, they saw that as being unjust and unfair. They stood up and they fought back.
In the days of terrible segregation and slavery, people said “America will not be racist.” Women fought back. The gay community fought back. Low-income workers fought back. That’s what change is about.
And right now, from coast to coast, and I’ve been from Maine to California, I am seeing millions of people looking around them and they’re saying wait a second, what is going on in our country when we have such a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
What is going on when the middle class continues to disappear? And we have more children – we have a higher rate of childhood poverty than almost any country on Earth? What is going on when we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee paid family and medical leave? Not to guarantee health care to all people? What is going on when women are making 79 cents on the dollar? And when young people are leaving school $50,000 in debt?
Now, what the establishment wants you to believe is that real change effectively dealing with these issues is impossible – it’s too big, it’s too radical. The options they want to give you, the media wants to give you, Congress wants to give you – should we cut food stamps or should we cut education?
We do not accept those choices. We’re going to ask – at a time of massive income and wealth inequality, yeah, we are going to tell the wealthiest people and the largest corporations to start paying their fair share of taxes.
If the American people are prepared to reject the Donald Trumps of the world who want to divide us up, they want to divide us up.
But if we stand together as black and white and Latino and Asian-American, as Native-American, if we stand together as gay and straight, male and female, if we stand together as people born in this country and people who have come into this country, if we stand together and have the courage to take on the billionaire class, to demand a government which represents all of us and not just the 1%, together there is nothing we cannot accomplish.
As all of you know in a few weeks, there is going to be an enormously important primary here in California.
And what I have found throughout this campaign is we win primaries and caucuses when the voter turnout is high, we lose when it is low.
Let us have in the California Democratic primary the largest voter turnout in the history of the state.
And let this great state show the world that you are prepared to help lead our nation into the political revolution. Thank you very much.

…And by the end of this campaign here in California, I am confident that we will have personally met and spoken to over 200,000 Californians.
This is a grassroots campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people.
And the reason we are going to win here in California and the reason we’re going to win the general election is the American people understand that given the crises facing our country, it is just too late for establishment politics or establishment economics.
What the American people understand is that we have got to bring forth a political revolution.
We have got to redefine what politics means in America. We need people from coast to coast standing up fighting back and demanding a government that represents all of us, not just the 1%.
This campaign is going to win because we are doing something rather unusual in American politics – we are telling the truth.
And here is the truth that in our great nation today we have a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy.
What democracy is supposed to be about as everyone here knows is one person, one vote. You get a vote and you get a vote and you get a vote and you get a vote.

If we get elected and I’m increasingly confident that we will, we are going to overturn this disastrous Supreme Court ruling on Citizens United.
This campaign is going to win because we are telling the truth in the sense that today we have a rigged economy.
And what a rigged economy is is that for 30 years the middle class of this country has been shrinking, shrinking, and shrinking, and almost all new income and wealth today is going to the top 1%.
What a rigged economy is about the top 0.1% – not 1%, 0.1% – owning almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
The rigged economy is when the 20 wealthiest people in this country own more wealth than the bottom 150 million Americans – half of our people.
A rigged economy is when one family – the Walton family of Walmart – owns more wealth than the bottom 42% of the American people.
Anybody here work at a Walmart? Okay, we’ve got a few. And here is what’s interesting about Walmart.
Walmart, owned by the wealthiest family in America, pays wages that are so low that many of the people who work there have got to go on food stamps and Medicaid.
Who pays for those food stamps and Medicaid? That’s right – working families of this country pay higher taxes in order to subsidize the wages paid by the wealthiest family in America. That is absurd.
So I say to the Walton family “Get off of welfare. Pay your workers a living wage.”
But it is not just a corrupt campaign finance system, it’s not just a rigged economy where today here in California, my state of Vermont, people are working two or three jobs. Mom’s working 40 hours. Dad’s working 40 hours. Kids are working 40 hours. And at the end of all of that, 58% of all new income goes to the top 1%.
You’re ready for a radical idea? Together we are going to create an economy that works for all of us, not just wealthy campaign contributors.

But it’s not just the corrupt campaign finance system that we have to change. It’s not just the rigged economy. It is also a broken criminal justice system.
Every American should be embarrassed by the fact that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
We are spending $80 billion a year to lock up 2.2 million people, disproportionately African-Americans, Latino, and Native Americans.
Our job is to understand why that is occurring and to change it.
And my promise to you is that at the end of my first terms as president, we will not have more people in jail than any other country.
And one of the reasons that we have so many people in jail is that across this country in inner cities, in African-American and Latino neighborhoods, in rural areas, we have youth unemployment rates of 30%, 40%, 50%.
Kids get out of high school, there are no jobs for them. And when kids hang out with no jobs, bad things can happen.
And that is why I believe that we should be investing for our kids in jobs and education, not in jails or incarceration.
We should not forget that it costs more money to lock somebody up than to send to the University of California.
And when we talk about reforming a broken criminal justice system, we’ve got to take a look at local police departments all across this country.
Now, I was a mayor in Burlington, Vermont for eight years and I work closely with the police officers there and I’ve worked with the police officers all over this country.
And the overwhelming majority of police officers are honest, hardworking, and have a very difficult job to do.
But like any other public official, when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
We have got to de-militarize local police departments. I do not want local police departments to be looking like occupying armies intimidating the people in their community.
We have got to make local police departments reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.
We have got to end corporate ownership of prisons and detention centers.
We have got to change law enforcement culture in this country so that the use of lethal force – shooting somebody – is the last response, not the first response.
We have got to re-think the so-called war on drugs.
Turns out – not widely known but true – turns out that over the last 30 years millions of Americans have received police record because of possession of marijuana.
And I want you to think about it. You’re a 19 year-old kid. You’ve got a police record. You go in, you apply for a job. Your employer asks you, “Hey, young man, you ever have a police record?” “Yes, sir, I did.” “Well, I got somebody else interested in that job.”

A lot of lives have been ruined because of possession of marijuana.
And in addition to that, it turns out that this becomes a racial issue because studies indicate that blacks and whites do marijuana at about equal rates.
Well, I don’t know if I would cheer for that but it’s a fact.
But, here’s what it also turns out. Blacks are four times more likely than whites to be arrested for doing marijuana.
So what do we do? This is what I think we do.
Number one, we understand that today the federal – federal – Controlled Substance Act lists marijuana as a Schedule I drug – the highest level right next to heroin.
Now, people can argue the pluses and minuses of marijuana. But no sane person believes that marijuana is equivalent to a killer drug like heroin.
And that is why if elected president, we will take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act.
Marijuana – possession of marijuana should not be a federal crime but as all of you know, the decision to legalize marijuana is a state issue, not a federal issue.
Four states in this country plus Washington, D.C. have voted to legalize marijuana.
As some of you may know, there will be an item on the ballot here in California in November, calling for legalization. Now, I don’t live here in California but if I did, I would vote for that proposition.
But while we’re on the issue of drugs, let me just say this and I think we all know this. Right now, in my state, in New England, and I believe all over this country, we’re looking at a horrific epidemic of opiate and heroin addiction. It is terrible.
And what we are seeing every single day is people are overdosing on opiates or heroin and they are dying.
This is an issue that must be dealt with but it must be dealt with intelligently.
And in my view, the best way to address that issue is to understand that substance abuse and addiction should not be treated as a criminal issue; it should be treated as a health related issue.
And that means we need a revolution in this country in how we do mental health treatment.
Right now, there are people who are addicted, who are strung out, who would like to get help but there is no treatment available for them that they can afford.
And in addition to that what is true – although what is very scary – is that walking the streets of America today right now, you’ve got many thousands of people who are suicidal and some are homicidal. And we all know about the terrible mass shootings that we have seen.
In my view, what our approach should be is to say to anybody in America in mental health crisis “You can get the treatment you need today, not six months from now”.
This campaign is listening to working people. And what working people are telling me is they can’t make it on $9, $10, or $11 an hour, which is why in my view we’re going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour.

And when we talk about equitable wages, I know that every man here will stand with the women in opposition to the fact that today women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
Today, we will fight and we will bring about pay equity for women. Equal pay for equal work.
This campaign is also listening to women who are hearing Republicans all over this country – Donald Trump and others – who are touting family values. And you all know what they mean by family values. What they mean is that no woman in Ventura, no woman in America should have the right to control her own body. We disagree.
And by the way, when Republicans talk about family values what they are also saying to our gay brothers and sisters that they should not have the right to get married. We disagree.
This campaign is not listening to wealthy campaign contributors and their needs. We are listening to young people and their needs.
And what young people are asking me – they’re asking me a very simple but very important question and that is how is it that when they do exactly the right thing, when they go out and get the best education that they can, which is what we want all Americans to be able to do, why is it that they’re ending up $30,000, $50,000, $70,000 in debt?
I grew up in a family that did not have a lot of money. My parents never went to college.
But what I want to see in this country is that every child who studies hard, every child who takes school seriously and does well, I want to see that child be able to go to college regardless of the income of his or her family.
Now, here’s the truth. 40, 50 years ago, people went out. They got a high school degree. And if you had a high school degree 40 or 50 years ago, you know what? Good chance you’d be able to go out and get a decent job and make it into the middle class.
But the world, the economy, technology have changed over the last 40 years. And today in many respects, a college degree is the equivalent to what a high school degree was 40 years ago.
And that is why I believe that today when we talk about public education, it is not good enough to be talking about first grade through twelfth grade.

We must be talking about making public colleges and universities tuition free.
Now does anybody here honestly think that making public colleges and universities tuition free is a radical idea?
It really is not. The world has change. Our educational system has got to change as well.
And by the way as many of you know, in countries like Germany and Scandinavia, college today is free. They are smart enough to invest and smart to know that investing in their young people is investing in the future of their country. It’s a lesson we should learn.
How many people here are dealing with student debt? Raise your hand. Whoa. Okay, well, welcome to the club. We’re talking about millions of people…What I’m hearing is $100,000, $220,000, $80,000.
Frankly, think about it. What this campaign is trying to do is to get people to think outside of the box, to think outside of the options that corporate media often gives us.
Ask yourself a simple question. We are living in a competitive global economy. We need the best educated workforce in the world.
Why in God’s name are we punishing people for getting an education? We should be rewarding them, not punishing them.
And that is why I believe that with regard to student debt, anybody who is holding that debt should be able to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find. And that will mean a very significant reduction in student debt in this country.
Now, my opponents and the establishment, they say, “Well now Bernie, he’s like Santa Claus. He’s got white hair. He’s giving away all of this stuff – free tuition, reducing student debt. How are you going to pay for it, Bernie?”
Let me tell you exactly how we will pay for it.
Eight years ago, after the greed, the recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street helped bring this country into the worst economic recession since the 1930s, Congress against my vote bailed out Wall Street.
Well, today Wall Street is doing just fine, and I believe it is exactly appropriate to place a tax on Wall Street speculation.
This country bailed out Wall Street; now it is Wall Street’s time to help the middle class of this country.
And that tax would more than pay to make public colleges and universities tuition free and substantially lower student debt.
This campaign is listening to people and communities whose voices and pain are not often heard. We are listening to the Latino community.
There are 11 million undocumented people in this country. Many of them are living in the shadows and in fear. Many of them who are at work right now are being exploited because when you have no legal rights, you can’t stand up to a boss who exploits you and cheats you on the job.
And that is why in my view, the time is long overdue for this country and for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.

Our immigration policy must be to unite families, not divide them.
And if elected president, I will end the current deportation policies.
And if Congress does not do its job, I will use all of the executive powers of the White House to do everything that I can.
This campaign is listening to the African-American community. And what the African-American community is asking me absolutely correctly how does it happen that we could spend trillions of dollars on a war in Iraq that we never should have gotten into and yet supposedly we don’t have the money to rebuild our crumbling inner cities throughout this country?
Brothers and sisters, I have been all over this country in the last year. I was in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned because of lead in the water in a water system that was to say the least totally inadequate.
I was in Detroit, Michigan where the school system – the public school system – is on the verge of fiscal collapse.
I was in Baltimore, Maryland where tens of thousands of people are addicted to heroin and can’t get the treatment that they need to get off of heroin.
In my view, instead of rebuilding communities in Afghanistan, we should be rebuilding communities in the United States of America.
This campaign is listening to a people who are in real pain but that pain is almost never heard and that is the Native American community.
All of us know that the Native American people were lied to. They were cheated. And treaties they negotiated throughout our history have been broken.
The Native American people have given us so much that we have a debt owed to them that we can never repay.
And maybe the most important lesson that they have taught us – an incredibly profound lesson – is that as human beings we are part of nature. We must live with nature. And if we continue to destroy nature, what we are doing is ultimately destroying ourselves.
But despite all that the Native Americans have given us, in Native American communities throughout this country, poverty and unemployment are sky high. Health care and education is not of the quality it should be.
If elected president, we will fundamentally change our relationship to the Native American people.
I am member of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Environment. And let me tell you that I have listened and talked to scientists all over our country and all over the world and they are virtually unanimous in telling us what people like Donald Trump and other Republicans refuse to acknowledge and that is climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and as the people of California already know, it is causing devastating problems in our country and around the world.

And what the scientists also tell us if we do not get our act together now, a bad situation will become much worse – more drought, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels.
We have a moral obligation as custodians of this planet – that is what we are. This is our planet. We are custodians of it. We must leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable to our children and future generations.
What this campaign is about is getting people to think outside of the box, outside of the status quo, and to ask some questions that you don’t hear asked in Congress and you don’t hear discussed much in the corporate media.
And one important question is how does it happen that in our great country – the wealthiest country in the history of the world, how does it happen that we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care to all people?
Now let me ask you all a question. How many people here today have no health insurance? Raise your hand. How many people her have high deductibles and high co-payments in their insurance policies?
All right, what you are seeing is a failed health care system.
The Affordable Care Act has done some good things. But it has not done enough…
In my view, health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
I want every American to be able to go to the doctor when they need to go to the doctor.
We are losing thousands of people every single year who by the time they get into a doctor’s office, their situation has become terminal. That is unacceptable.
Furthermore, not only today do we have so many people uninsured – 29 million -and more under-insured, every one of us is getting ripped by the unconscionable greed of the pharmaceutical industry.
There are people in America dying and there are people getting much sicker than they should because they cannot afford the astronomical high prices that the drug industry is charging us today.
It is crazy that one out of four Americans cannot afford the medicine they need and it is equally crazy that the top five drug companies last year made $50 billion in profit.
If elected president, the drug companies will not continue ripping off the people of this country.
Brothers and sisters, everybody here knows that real change in America has never taken place from the top on down but always from the bottom on up.
You know, it’s never about some guy up there saying, “You know, I think it’d be a good idea to do this or that.”
It always occurs throughout our history when people by the millions stand up and fight back and demand dignity.
You all know that 100 plus years many workers in America were working seven days a week 12 hours a day. Kids of 12 years of age were working in factories, losing their fingers because they were around machinery they should not have been around.
And what working people said 100 plus years ago, they said, we’re not animals. We’re not beasts of burden. We’re human beings. We want dignity. We’re going to form trade unions and negotiate fair contracts.

150 years ago amidst the abomination of slavery and racism, African-Americans and their allies looked at the future and they stood up and they fought back to end racism in America.
And we’ll never know – we will never know – how many of those heroes and heroines were killed in that struggle, how many went to jail, how many were beaten, how many lost their jobs. But they had the courage to stand up and to demand a country which rid itself of racism and bigotry.
People don’t know this or have forgotten – 100 years ago – not a long time in human, women in America did not have the right to vote or to get the jobs or education they wanted.
What the establishment said to women, “Your job is to stay home and have babies. That’s what you’re supposed to do.”
But what women said “You will not define us. We will define ourselves.”
And women and their male allies stood up, fought back and said women in America will not be second class citizens.
If you think not 100 years ago – think back 10 years ago…and you were to tell me 10 years ago…if we were here and somebody jumps up and say, “You know, Bernie, I think that gay marriage will be legal in every state in this country by the year 2015.” The person next to her would have said, “You’re crazy. There is too much bigotry, too much homophobia. It will not happen.”
But the gay community and their straight allies stood up, fought back, and said and loudly and proudly that in America people should have the right to love whoever they wanted regardless of their gender.
If we were here five years ago, no time at all, and somebody would have jumped up and said, “Bernie, you know the $7.25 federal minimum wage is ridiculous. We’ve got to raise it to $15 an hour.” The person next to him would have said, “$15 an hour?! You’re crazy. You’re a radical. You’re an extremist. Can’t happen. You’re asking for too much.”
But three years ago, workers in the fast food industry, in McDonald’s, in Burger King, in Wendy’s, they went out on strike and they stood up and they told America they cannot make it on starvation wages. They need $15 an hour.
And then a few years ago in Seattle, $15 an hour. In San Francisco, in Los Angeles, $15 an hour. In California, New York state, $15 an hour.
What is my point? My point is that the establishment always wants you to believe that real change is impossible, that your dreams are so radical they cannot be achieved and you’ve got to accept minor, minor changes at best.
And what this campaign is about is rejecting that entire approach.
No, my Republican friends think we have to cut Social Security and benefits for veterans.
No, we’re not going to do that. We’re going to increase Social Security and benefits for veterans.

And what I am seeing all over this country literally from coast to coast, from Maine to California is people are beginning to understand that something is fundamentally wrong. They are asking themselves why is it that I am working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%?
Why is it that we’re seeing a proliferation of billionaires and yet half of the children in America in public schools are on free or reduced lunches?
Why is it that kids are graduating schools $90,000 or more in debt?
Why is it that women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men?
Why is it that we are the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee paid family and medical leave?
Why are we the only country – major country – not to guarantee health care for all?
Why is our infrastructure – our roads, our bridges – collapsing at the same time as millions of people desperately need jobs?
Why are we firing teachers when we need more teachers to better educate our children?
Why haven’t we been more aggressive in taking on the fossil fuel industry and transforming our energy system?
Why do we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs? Why does Wall Street continue to rip off the American people every single day? Those are the questions that the American people are beginning to ask.
And the answer is that when people come together by the millions, when people stand up and say that our government has got to represent all of us, not just the few, when this country brings about a political revolution so that real power rests in the hands of working families not wealthy campaign contributors, that’s when we bring real change to this country.
On June 7th, there will be in California the most important primary in the whole nominating process. There are 475 delegates at stake here in California.
What I have learned throughout this campaign is that when voter turnout is high, when working people and young people come out in large numbers, we win.
And if we can win here in California and win in the other five states that are primaries on June 7th, we’re going to go marching into the Democratic Convention with enormous momentum and I believe that we will be marching out of that convention as the Democratic nominee.
And if I am the Democratic nominee, Donald Trump is toast.
So on June 7th here in California, let us see the largest voter turnout in Democratic primary history. Let this great state – one of the most progressive states in America – go on record in saying yes to the political revolution.
Thank you all!

Thank you! Thank you, LA! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
Let me – let me thank – let me thank – let me thank – let me thank all of you. Let me thank all of you for being here tonight.
And let me thank all of you for being part of the political revolution.
I especially want to thank the tens of thousands of volunteers here in the state of California. And I want to thank the people of California for their incredible hospitality.
It has been one of the most moving moments of my life to be out throughout this state in beautiful evenings and seeing thousands and thousands of people coming out. People who are prepared to stand up and fight for real change in this country.
All of you know – all of you know that when we began this campaign a little over a year ago, we were considered to be a fringe campaign.
But over the last year, I think that has changed just a little bit.
By the end of tonight, we’ll have won, I believe, 22 state primaries and caucuses. We will have received well over 10 million votes.
And what is most extraordinary to me is the fact that in virtually every single state, we have won by big numbers the votes of young people. Young people understand that they are the future of America, and they intend to help shape that future.
And I am enormously optimistic about the future of our country when so many young people have come on board and understand that our vision – a vision of social justice, economic justice, racial justice, and environmental justice – must be the future of America. Our vision will be the future of America.

Our campaign from day one has understood some very basic points and that is first we will not allow right-wing Republicans to control our government. And that is especially true with Donald Trump as the Republican candidate.
The American people in my view will never support a candidate whose major theme is bigotry, who insults Mexicans, who insults Muslims and women and African-Americans.
We will not allow Donald Trump to become president of the United States.
But we understand that our mission is more than just defeating Trump; it is transforming our country.
The vast majority of the American people know that it is not acceptable that the top 0.1% owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%. We’re going to change that.
And when millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, we will not allow 57% of all new income to go to the top 1%.
And we will end a corrupt campaign finance system. Democracy is not about billionaires buying elections.
And we will end a broken criminal justice system.
And we will break up the major banks on Wall Street.
And we will join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people as a right.
And we will bring about real immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
And we will tell the billionaire class and corporate America that they will start paying their fair share of taxes.

And what we understand and what everyone of us has always understood is that real change never occurs from the top on down; always from the bottom on up.
That is the history of America, whether it is the creation of the trade union movement, the civil rights movement, the women’s movement, the gay movement. And that is what our movement is about.
But you all know it is more than Bernie. It is all of us together.
It is what this movement is about is millions of people from coast to coast standing up and looking around them and knowing that we can do much, much better as a nation, whether Wall Street likes it, whether corporate America likes it, whether wealthy campaign contributors like it, whether the corporate likes it.
Together we know what our job is and that is to bring the American people together to create a government that works for us, not the 1%.
Next Tuesday, we continue the fight in the last primary in Washington, D.C.
We are going to fight hard to win the primary in Washington, D.C., and then we take our fight for social, economic, racial, and environmental justice to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

I am pretty good in arithmetic and I know the fight in front of us is a very, very steep fight. But we will continue to fight for every vote and every delegate…
Tonight, I had a very kind call from President Obama and I look forward to working with him to make sure that we move this country forward.
And tonight, I had a very gracious call from Secretary Clinton and congratulated her on her victories tonight.
Our fight is to transform this country and to understand that we are in this together, to understand that all of what we believe is what the majority of the American people believe, and to understand that the struggle continues.
I want to thank the people of North Dakota. It appears that we will likely win Montana as well.
I don’t think anybody knows what will end up here in California but I suspect the gap will significantly diminish.
And if this campaign has proven anything, it has proven that millions of Americans who love this country are prepared to stand up and fight to make this country a much better place.
Thank you all. The struggle continues!

Thank you all.
Let me begin by thanking President Obama and thanking Vice President Biden for the degree of impartiality they established during the course of this entire process.
What they said in the beginning is that they would not put their thumbs on the scales and in fact they kept their word and I appreciate that very, very much.
Our campaign has been about building a movement which brings working people and young people into the political process to create a government which represents all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
We will continue doing everything that we can to oppose the drift which currently exists toward an oligarchic form of society where a handful of billionaires exercise enormous power over our political, economic, and media life.
This is the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We should not be having millions of senior citizens and disabled veterans struggling to put food on the table because of inadequate Social Security benefits.
We should not have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
We should not be having Americans in inner cities, in rural communities, on Native American reservations who have life expectancies lower than many people in Third World countries.
We should not be having many of our young people leaving college deeply in debt.
We should not be having in this great country an infrastructure, which is crumbling when we have millions of workers prepared to rebuild that infrastructure.
And in the midst of all of that, we should not be having a situation where Wall Street corporate America and billionaires are failing to pay their fair share of taxes.
These are some of the issues that many millions of Americans have supported during my campaign. These are the issues that we will take to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia at the end of July.
Donald Trump would clearly to my mind and I think the majority of Americans be a disaster as president of the United States.
It is unbelievable to me and I say this with all sincerity that the Republican Party would have a candidate for president who in the year 2016 makes bigotry and discrimination the cornerstone of his campaign.
In my view, the American people will not vote for or tolerate a candidate who insults Mexicans and Latinos, who insults Muslims, who insults African-American, and women.
Needless to say, I am going to do everything in my power – and I will work as hard as I can – to make sure that Donald Trump does not become president of the United States.
I will of course be competing in the D.C. primary, which will be held next Tuesday. This is the last primary of the Democratic nominating process.
The major point that I will be making to the citizens of the District of Columbia is that I am strongly in favor of D.C. statehood.
The state of Vermont, which I represent, has about the same number of residents that Washington, D.C. has except we have two United States senators and one congressman with full rights while D.C. does not. That does not make any sense.
Also, I look forward to the full counting of the votes in California, which I suspect will show a much closer vote than the current vote tally.
I spoke briefly to Secretary Clinton on Tuesday night and I congratulated her on her very strong campaign.
I look forward to meeting with her in the near future to see how we can work together to defeat Donald Trump and to create a government which represents all of us and not just the 1%.
Thank you very much.

All right, so here is the point of all that. What seems radical today will seem mainstream tomorrow if we stand together and make those changes.
And what I am seeing all over this country – this is what I’m seeing and this is extraordinary – from coast to coast and I’ve been from coast to coast, people are standing up and they’re looking around them and they say, “You know what? Having the top 1% owning more wealth than the bottom 90%, unacceptable. Seeing the middle class year after year decline and people having to work two or three jobs, unacceptable. Having veterans sleep out on the street, unacceptable. Having senior citizens living on $10,000, $11,000 a year inadequate social security, unacceptable. Having young people leave school $50,000 in debt, unacceptable. Having our infrastructure collapse in front of us while so many workers are sitting out there idle, ready to rebuild that infrastructure, unacceptable.”
So people all over this country are looking at the status quo and they understand that it is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics, that we need real change in this country.
And what people also understand is that no president – not Bernie Sanders, or anybody else can do it alone – that we need in this country are millions of people standing up, fighting back, and demanding a government that represents all of us, not just the 1%.
And that is what this campaign is all about. And on next Tuesday, in a few days, here in Washington, you will be having the very last primary of the Democratic nominating process.
It would be extraordinary if the people of Washington, our nation’s capitol, stood up and told the world that they are ready to lead this country into a political revolution.
Thank you all very much!

150 years ago, amidst the abomination of slavery, there were African-Americans and their allies even back then and all the way to the future to today who were standing up and sometimes going to jail, sometimes getting killed, sometimes getting beaten, sometimes losing their jobs, but they stood up and over the years millions of people said “This country will end racism and bigotry and discrimination.”
And think about the courage of those people. Know that in the south if there was a meeting of black and white workers, it was against the law and they could be arrested.
Think about 100 years ago today. Women in America did not have the right to vote, to get the jobs they wanted, to get the education they wanted. 10-year-old girls don’t know that. But it is true.
But women stood up and they fought back. And at a time when the establishment and the ruling class of the period said to them, “Your job as a woman is to stay home and have babies,” women stood up and said, “You will not define us. We will define ourselves.”
Now, it is easy to look back and to say women didn’t have the right to vote? That’s crazy.
But understand what it was like in that culture, in that time. The courage that those women showed.
Think about something even more contemporary. Think about the fact that if we were here 10 years ago and somebody jumped up and said, “You know, Bernie, I think that by the year 2015, gay marriage will be legal in every state in the country”, if somebody had said that 10 years ago, do you know what the person next to her would have said? Would have said, “You’re crazy. There is too much homophobia. There is too much prejudice. There is too much bigotry. It can’t happen.”
But what happened is the gay community and their straight allies fought an incredibly courageous battle. And what they said loudly and proudly is that people in this country should have the right to love each other regardless of their gender.
Think about something even more contemporary. If we were here five years ago, think about it – five years ago, no time at all – somebody jumps up and says, “You know, Bernie, this federal minimum wage of $7.25 it’s a starvation wage. We’ve got to raise it to $15 an hour.” The person next to him – think about this. What would the person next to him say? “You’re crazy. $15 an hour? You want to more than double the federal minimum wage? Maybe we’ll get $9. Maybe you can get $10. $15? Too radical. Too crazy. You’re an extremist.”
Ah, you’re laughing. But what happened? What happened is that workers in the fast food industry, in McDonald’s, in Burger King, in Wendy’s, and I had the privilege to be out on the streets marching with them right here in D.C.
They stood up and they said, “You know what? We can’t make it on $7.25, $8 an hour, $10 an hour. And we need $15 an hour.”
And then you know what happened? Once the people of this country began to deal with that issue, way out in Seattle, the city council passed $15 an hour. And then Los Angeles and San Francisco $15 an hour. And California and New York state. And then suddenly, cities and towns all over this country – $15 an hour.
So what seemed impossible, what seemed radical just a few years ago is now common place – $15 an hour. Oh yeah, that’s what we need.

Only major country. Go to Germany. Go to Scandinavia. Go to the UK. Go to Holland. Go to France. Go to Canada. I live in Burlington, Vermont, 50 miles away from the Canadian border. Not a big deal. Everybody in Canada has health care as a right.
We are the only major country that that does not exist. I think it’s time to end that international embarrassment.
So I’ve been criticized for saying this so let me say it again. In my view, health care is a human right, not a privilege.
That means if you’re rich or you’re poor, you’re young or you’re old, you should be able to go to the doctor when you need to go to the doctor.
Now, the Affordable Care Act has done some very good things but we still have a long way to go.
We’ve got 29 million Americans today who have no health insurance. We have even more, including many of you, who are under-insured with high deductibles and high co-payments. Is that right?
Anybody know how many people in this country die every year because they don’t get to a doctor when they should? That’s right – 40,000.
I talk to doctors all of the time and you know what they say? They say that patients come into their offices much, much sicker than they should be. And the doctor said, “Why didn’t you come in a year ago when you first felt your symptom?” And what did people say? They’d say, “I didn’t have any insurance” or “I had a high deductible. I couldn’t afford it.”
And 40,000 people a year die because they go to the doctor too late.
And that is why I believe we should pass a Medicare for all single payer program.
The issue is not what is right or wrong. Anybody with any sense of morality understands that health care should be a right, that it is a disgrace that we have so many people uninsured and under-insured. That’s not the issue.
The issue is the power of the private insurance companies and the pharmaceutical industry. And I think it is time that we took them on, that we told the drug companies they cannot continue to charge us the highest prices in the world by far for the medicine we need.
You’ve got one out of five Americans cannot afford to fill the prescriptions their doctors write.
You’ve got old people who are cutting their pills in half because they can’t afford the medicine they require.
And yet last year the five major drug companies made $50 billion in profit.
Enough is enough! We are going to tell the pharmaceutical industry they will stop ripping off the American people.
What this campaign is about is learning the most important lesson that American history can teach us, and that is that real change never takes place from the top on down but always from the bottom on up.
That is the history of America.
And I want you to think about it. Think about 100 plus years ago, there were workers all over this country who were working seven days a week, 12 hours a day, they had no rights at all. But with great courage, they organized and they stood up and they told their employers, “We’re not animal. We’re not beasts of burdens. We are human beings”. And they stood up and they formed trade unions.

And this is what they tell us and this is scary stuff and we’d better listen.
What they tell us is if we do not get our act together in a short window of opportunity, a bad situation will become much worse. And that means more drought, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels.
And you know what else it means? It means that there will be more international conflict as countries and people fight for limited natural resources.
Our job is to tell the fossil fuel industry that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of this planet.
We have a moral responsibility – you know who we are? We are the custodians of this planet and guess what? Ain’t another planet. This is it. Destroy this one, our children and our grandchildren have nowhere else to go.
So I believe that we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And by the way, when we do that in an aggressive way, we can create millions of decent-paying jobs.
And when we work with other countries – oh by the way – we save the planet.
What this campaign is asking people time and again in different ways to think outside of the box, don’t accept the analysis or the options that the corporate media gives you or that Congress gives you.
You know, the options are not “Should we have a great debate on whether we cut nutrition programs for children or whether we cut education? Those are our options. What do you think?” We reject those options.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality the other option not put on the table is that the billionaires and corporate America will start paying their fair share of taxes.
And what this campaign is about whether it’s education – I mentioned public – free tuition at public colleges and universities, do all of you know that that already exists in Germany? It exists in Scandinavia. This is not a radical idea.
And when we talk about human needs, when we talk about affordable housing where there is in city after city – you know when I was a kid, the expectation was that families should pay 25% or 30% max of their incomes for housing. You know that?
You’re laughing because today all over this country people are paying 50% or 60%. Now, how the hell do you have money left over to buy food, to keep your house warm, to put gas in your car when you’re paying 50% or 60% for affordable housing?
So our job is to build millions of units of affordable housing. Our job is not to accept – not to accept – that fellow Americans are sleeping out on the street a few blocks away from. Never accept that as a reality. We can change it.
And when we talk about human needs, it’s affordable housing. It is education. It is decent and affordable nutrition.
But it is also something else where we are way behind other countries – not discussed very much in media. But all of you know or should know the United States is the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care to all people as a right.

And what the Latino community is telling the world is that there are 11 million undocumented people in this country, many of them living in the shadows, many of them living in fear, and many of them being exploited everyday on the job.
I just came back from California and we visited Central California and talked to farm workers there. And what we’re seeing in that part of the world and all over this country is that people who have no legal rights can be forced to work longer hours than they’re supposed to, be paid wages lower than they’re supposed to, have terrible working conditions but they have no recourse because they no legal rights. That has got to change.
This Congress must own up to its responsibilities, end a broken immigration system, and move towards citizenship and comprehensive immigration reform.
And if Congress does not pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship, I will use the executive powers of the presidency to…[inaudible audio]
This campaign is listening to a people whose pain is almost never heard and that is the Native American people – a people of great dignity.
Now, here is a people who have been lied to, who have been cheated, who have signed treaties which have been abrogated from way before this country even became a country.
And yet, despite all of that, we owe the Native American people a debt of gratitude that we can never fully repay.
If you think about the best parts of our culture, much of it comes from the first Americans.
Think for a moment – think about the lessons that they have taught us and maybe this is the most profound lesson and that is that as human beings we are part of nature.
Not a complicated idea but a profound idea which tells us we must live with nature.
And as we can see increasingly everyday, if we continue to destroy nature, we are destroying the human specie.
And yet despite all of the wisdom the Native American people have given us on their reservations and in their communities all across this country, unemployment and poverty sky high, access to decent education and health care abysmally low.
Our job is to totally transform our relationship to the Native American people and that is what I intend to do if elected president.
Now, I know that as you all know Donald Trump is among many other things – so you didn’t know that Donald Trump among this many attributes is an extraordinarily brilliant scientists. You didn’t know. He doesn’t like to brag because he’s a modest guy.
And he has studied climate change for decades and after exhaustive studies, he has come to the conclusion that climate change is a hoax.
Now, on the other hand, I have as a member of the Senate Committee on the Environment, I have talked to people other than Donald Trump on this issue, and they have a slightly different perspective.
They believe that A, climate change is very real, B, that climate change is caused by human activity, and C, climate change is already doing devastating harm in our country and countries all over the world.

And here is the point that we have got to address. In the last 25 years, there has been a massive transfer of wealth from the middle class to the top 0.1%.
Our job is to transfer that money back into the hands of the middle class.
Eight years ago, as all of you know, against my vote, Congress bailed out Wall Street.
Wall Street’s greed, its recklessness, and its illegal behavior nearly destroyed the economy. Millions of people lost their jobs, their homes, and their life savings. Congress bailed them out.
Well, I think if Congress can bail out Wall Street, it is Wall Street’s time to help the middle class of this country.
And that is why I believe we must impose a tax on Wall Street speculation. And that would more than cover free tuitions at public colleges and universities and lowering student debt.
Now, Wall Street doesn’t like this idea. But I say, you know what? Wall Street, you’re going to learn you no longer are going to get it all.
This campaign is listening to the African-American community. And the African-American community is asking all of us – how does it happen that we can spend trillions of dollars on a war in Iraq we never ever should have gotten into? No problem, we can bail out Wall Street. No problem. We can give tax breaks to billionaires. No problem. But somehow when it comes to rebuilding inner cities in America providing good education, good health care, affordable housing, somehow we seem not to have the money?
And what this campaign is about is making it clear together we are going to change our national priorities.
No more tax breaks for the rich. They’re going to start paying their fair share of their taxes.
No more wars that we should never have gotten into in the first place.
But yes to rebuilding our inner cities, putting Americans to work, creating the kind of environment that our children require.
And this campaign is also about telling those Republican governors all across this country we will no longer allow you to suppress the vote.
People have fought too hard and too long for cowardly Republican governors to try to make it harder for people of color, for young people, for old people to participate in the political process.
And I say to those cowardly Republican governors – if you don’t have enough guts to participate in free and fair elections, get out of politics, get a new job.
This campaign is listening to the Latino community.

Roads and bridges and water systems and waste water plants and airports and rail. We had the best rail system in the world. No longer the case.
We can create up to 13 million good-paying jobs rebuilding our infrastructure, which is exactly what I intend to do.
When we talk about why the middle class has been disappearing for 30 years, one of the reasons is a disastrous trade policy, which has allowed corporate America to shut down in this country to move to low-wage countries abroad.
We have a message for corporate America and that is if you want us to buy your products, start manufacturing them here in the United States.
This campaign is listening to young people. And young people are catching on. They are the future of America and they are damned determined to shape the future of America.
What this campaign is about is thinking outside of the box beyond the status quo.
Think about this for a second. Everybody here knows – no debate – we are living in a highly competitive global economy. Everybody knows that to succeed today and in the future, we need the best educated workforce in the world. No one denies that.
Our job, therefore, is to encourage people not just young people but in a technologically changing society – all people – to get the best education that they can.
Now, 40 years ago, you had a high school degree, you were doing okay. High school degree would enable you to go out and probably get a middle class job. That was 40 years ago, not today.
Today, when we talk about public education, it is no longer good enough to talk about first grade through 12th grade.
We have got to talk about public education meaning free tuition at public colleges and universities.
Does anybody here think that that is a radical idea? It is an absolutely common sense idea. It will happen sooner or later. Our job is to make it sooner.
I want every child here in Washington D.C. and in Vermont regardless of their income to understand that if they study hard, if they do well in school, yes, they will be able to get a college education.
And that is what America is supposed to be about – that anybody can make it into the middle class regardless of the income of your families.
Anybody here have student debt they’re struggling with? All right, now think about this. If our job is to encourage people to get the best education that they can, why are we punishing millions of people for getting a college education?
What I believe we have got to do is to make it possible for everybody who has a student debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Now, my opponents and the establishment media, well, they say, “Bernie, you’re Santa Claus. You’re giving away all of these things. You’re giving away free tuition at colleges. You’re going to lower student debt. How are you going to pay for it?”

And by the way, this is not just drug abuse or addiction. There are thousands of people walking the streets of this country who are suicidal and/or homicidal. I want those people to be treated and their problems to be treated like any other health-related issue.
I don’t want them to have to fill out 50 forms and maybe get treated eight months from now.
If you’re facing a mental health crisis in America, you should get treatment you need today, not eight months from now.
This campaign is listening to ordinary Americans and not just wealthy campaign contributors.
And what I am extraordinarily proud of is that this campaign has received more individual campaign contributions than any campaign in American history up to this point.
We have received eight million individual campaign contributions. Anyone know the average contribution? $27.
And you know what that means? What that means is in spite of all the rhetoric out there we have shown the world that you can run a winning national campaign without being dependent on Wall Street, drug companies or big money interests.
This campaign has been listening to working people. And what working people are telling me is that they cannot make it on a starvation minimum wage of $7.25, that we’ve got to raise the federal minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour.
And when we talk about equitable wages, we have also got to understand that it is not acceptable that women today are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men. That has nothing to do with economics. It is just old fashioned sexism and together we’re going to end that.
And I know that every man here is going to stand with the women in the fight for pay equity.
Now, once a month the federal government comes out with a report on official unemployment, usually around 5% lately.
Anyone here believe that real unemployment nationally is 5%? You’re right. It’s not.
There’s another federal report, which doesn’t get quite so much publicity which adds not only those who are unemployed but those who have given up looking for work and those who are working part-time when they want to work full-time.
That number means almost 10% of our people are unemployed. And obviously in certain areas of the country, that number is much higher than that.
That is why we need a massive federal jobs program to put Americans back to work.
We should be hiring teachers, not firing teachers. We should be creating the best childcare system in the world, not maintain a dysfunctional system.
Once upon a time, the United States had the best infrastructure in the world.

I want our young people in school, not rotting in jail cells.
I want this country to have the best educated population in the world, not more people in jail than any other country.
But when we look at the criminal justice issue, it is not just the fact that we have high youth unemployment. It is also necessary for us to look at local police departments all across this country.
Now, I was a mayor for eight years in Burlington, Vermont, worked with police officers all over this country. The average police officer works hard, is honest, and is trying to do a good job.
But like any other public official, when a police officer breaks the law, that officer must be held accountable.
It is time for us to de-militarize local police departments.
It is time for us to make local police departments reflect the diversity of the communities they serve.
It is time to end corporate ownership of prisons and detention centers.
It is time for us to have a law enforcement culture which says that lethal force – the shooting of somebody – is the last response not the first response.
It is time for us to take a hard look at the so-called war on drugs.
Millions of Americans over the last 30 years have received police records because of possession of marijuana.
And if you are a 19 year old kid going out looking for a job, having a police record does not help.
That is why I believe that at a time when the Federal Controlled Substance lists marijuana as a Schedule I drug, it is time to take marijuana out of the Federal Controlled Substance Act.
But when we talk about drugs, there’s another issue that we have got to put front and center on the table. And that is we have an epidemic in this country of opiate and heroin addiction.
Everyday – everyday – people are dying of overdoses of heroin or opiates.
But to address this crisis we have got to be smart. And being smart means that when we deal with substance abuse or addiction, we understand that we cannot treat those issues as criminal issues but as health issues.
And that means that we need a revolution in mental health treatment in this country.
People in America should be able to get the mental health treatment they need when they need it, not six months from now.

A rigged economy is when Wall Street’s greed and recklessness and illegal behavior destroys the economy and then the Congress bails them out.
And a rigged economy is when Wall Street’s illegal behavior ends up with no Wall Street executives going to jail.
A rigged economy is when momma’s working, dad’s working, the kids are working and 57% of all new income goes to the top 1%.
Brothers and sisters, our job is to create an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1%.
I have been in this campaign to Native American reservations. I was in Pine Ridge in South Dakota, and you know in Pine Ridge life expectancy is lower than in many third world countries.
I have been to Flint, Michigan, where the children are drinking water that is poisoned.
I have been to Detroit, Michigan, where the public school system is on the verge of fiscal collapse.
Been to Baltimore, Maryland where tens of thousands people there are addicted to heroin and they cannot get the treatment that they need.
This is the United States of America. We should not be having 47 million people living in poverty.
This is the United States of America. We should not be living in a country where the very, very rich get richer while almost everybody else gets poorer.
This is the United States of America where in the last 25 years we have seen the middle class shrink and shrink and shrink while almost all new wealth goes to the people on top.
That is not what this country is about and together we are going to change that.
This campaign is not just about a corrupt campaign finance system. It is not just about a rigged economy. It is about a broken criminal justice system.
Every person here and every person in this country should be embarrassed by the fact that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
Why in God’s name are we spending $80 billion a year to lock up 2.2 million fellow Americans?
And it’s our job to understand the cause of that issue and to resolve it.
And that means for a start we know that in community after community throughout this country and in inner cities and in rural America, we have youth unemployment rates of 30%, 40%, 50%. And when young people are hanging out on street corners, when they’re not in school, when they’re not at work, bad things can happen.
So what I think and I know you think is that it makes a lot more sense for us to be investing in jobs and education for our young people, rather than jails and incarceration.

And what is that reality?
That reality is that we hear all of the time that we are a democracy. But the fact of the matter is even excluding the issue of Washington D.C. not having elected representatives in the Congress is that all of you know that increasingly big money is buying elections.
Right now, you have a couple of brothers called the Koch brothers. They are worth tens of billions of dollars and they are determined to purchase the United States Senate for right-wing Republicans.
When you have a handful of billionaires spending unlimited sums of money, you can call it whatever you want but it sure is not democracy. In fact, it sounds to me like oligarchy.
And what this campaign has been talking about from day one is the trend that we are seeing in our political life, in our economic life, in our media life of fewer and fewer wealthy people controlling this nation. And that type of drift toward oligarchy is something we must prevent.
And that means overturning this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision. It means moving to public funding of elections.
Can you imagine two people – the Koch brothers – one family in the process now of purchasing the United States Senate.
My view is not only should we overturn Citizens United, but we should move toward public funding of elections.
But it is not just a corrupt campaign finance system that we have got to address. It is a rigged economy.
This is – if you add it all up – the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but most people don’t know that because almost all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
The United States is not supposed to be a country which has more income and wealth inequality than any other major country on Earth.
We are not supposed to be a country where the top 0.1% now owns almost 90% of the wealth of this country.
We are not supposed to be a country where the 20th wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million Americans.
Income and wealth inequality and a rigged economy means that we are seeing a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires and yet walk five blocks away from here and we’ve got people sleeping out on the street.
A rigged economy is when a mother goes out to work and yet the wages that she earns are so low, she cannot afford decent quality child care for her children or provide the security her kids need.
A rigged economy is when the United States has the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
A rigged economy is when CEOs who make tens of millions a year cut back on the wages, cut back on the health care, cut back on the pension of their workers.

…Let me thank all of you for being part of the political revolution.
We have – a little bit over a year ago, we began this campaign and what the punditry thought is that the campaign would not go very far. Well, here we are in mid-June and we’re still standing.
And we are standing after having won 22 states and the results have not yet come in from California. We have won over 10 million votes.
And in every state and non-state, I’m aware of this issue here in Washington, D.C. and I hope that the next time I’m back, we’re going to be talking about the state of Washington, D.C.
But in every state and non-state that we have run in we have won by very large votes the young people.
And the reason that that is significant is that this campaign is based on a vision that our country must focus on social justice, on economic justice, on racial justice, on environmental justice.
And when the overwhelming majority of young people support that vision, that will be the future of America.
This campaign has done as well as it has because we are doing something unusual in American politics – we’re telling the truth.
And the truth has to do with the reality of our lives as we experience it, not what we see on corporate television.
…

…And let me begin by thanking the 13 million Americans who voted for me during the Democratic primaries. And thank you, New Hampshire, for giving us our first great victory.
And a very special thanks to the people of the state of Vermont whose support for so many years as a mayor, as a congressman, as a senator, and as a presidential candidate has sustained me and Jane and our entire family. Vermont, thank you!
Let me also thank the hundreds of thousands of volunteers throughout this country in every state of the union who worked so hard on our campaign and the millions of contributors who showed the world that we could run a successful national campaign based on small individual contributions – 2.5 million of them.
Together, we have begun a political revolution to transform America and that revolution continues.
Together, we will continue to fight for a government which represents all of us and not just the 1%. A government based on the principles of economic, social, racial, and environmental justice.
I am proud of the campaign we ran here in New Hampshire and across the country. Our campaign won the primaries and caucuses in 22 states and when the roll call at the Democratic National Convention is announced, it will show that we won almost 1,900 delegates – far more than almost anyone thought we could win.
But it is not enough to win the nomination. Secretary Clinton goes into the convention with 389 more pledged delegates than we have and a lot more super delegates. Secretary Clinton has won the Democratic nominating process.

And I congratulate her for that.
She will be the Democratic nominee for president and I intend to do everything I can to make certain she will be the next president of the United States.
I have come here today not to talk about the past but to focus on the future.
That future will be shaped more by what happens on Nov. 8th in voting booths across our nation than by any other event in the world.
I have come here to make it as clear as possible as to why I am endorsing Hillary Clinton and why she must become our next president.
During the last year, I have had the extraordinary opportunity – an extraordinary opportunity – to speak to more than 1.4 million Americans at rallies in almost every state in our country. I was also able to meet with many thousands of other people in smaller gatherings.
And the profound lesson that I have learned is that this campaign is not really about Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump or Bernie Sanders or any other candidate who sought the presidency.
This campaign is about the needs of the American people and addressing the very serious crises that we face. And there is no doubt in my mind that as we head into November that Hillary Clinton is far and away the best candidate to do that.
It is very easy to forget and Republicans want us to forget where we were 7.5 years ago when President Obama came into office.
As a result of the greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street, our economy was on the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Some 800,000 people a month were losing their jobs. We were running up a record-breaking deficit and the world’s financial system was on the verge of collapse.
We have come a long way in the last 7.5 years and I thank President Obama and Vice President Biden for their leadership in pulling us out of that terrible recession.

But I think we can all agree that much, much more needs to be done.
Too many Americans are still being left out, left behind, and ignored.
In the richest country in the history of the world, there is too much poverty. There is too much despair.
This election is about the single mother I saw in Nevada who with tears in her eyes told me that she was scared to death of the future because she and her daughter were not making it on the $10.45 an hour she was earning.
This election is about that woman and the millions of other workers in this country who are falling further and further behind as they try to survive on totally inadequate wages.
Hillary Clinton understands that we must fix an economy in America that is rigged and that sends almost all of the new wealth and income to the top 1%.
Hillary Clinton understands that if someone in America works 40 hours a week that person should not be living in poverty.
She believes – we all believe – that we must raise the minimum wage to a living wage.
And further she wants to create millions of new jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, our water systems, our wastewater plants.
But her opponent, Donald Trump, well, he has a very different view. He believes that states should have the right to lower the minimum wage or even abolish the concept of a minimum wage.
If Donald Trump is elected, we will see no increase in the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour – a starvation wage.
This election is about which candidate will nominate Supreme Court justices – who will nominate Supreme Court justices who are prepared to overturn the disastrous Citizens United decision – a decision which is allowing billionaires to buy elections and is undermining our democracy.
This election is about who will appoint new justices on the Supreme Court who will defend a woman’s right to choose, who will defend the rights of the LGBT community, who will defend workers’ rights, the needs of minorities and immigrants, and the government’s ability to protect our environment.
If anyone out there thinks that this election is not important, take a moment to think about the Supreme Court justices that Donald Trump will nominate and what that means to civil liberties, equal rights, and the future of our country.

This campaign is about moving the United States towards universal health care and reducing the number of people in our country who are uninsured or under-insured.
Hillary Clinton wants to see that all Americans have the right to choose a public option in their health care exchange, which will lower the costs of health care for millions.
She also believes that anyone 55 years or older should be able to opt into Medicare and she wants to see millions more Americans gain access to primary health care, dental care, mental health counseling, and low-cost prescription drugs through a major and dramatic expansion of community health centers throughout this country.
Hillary is committed to seeing thousands of young doctors, nurses, psychologists, dentists and other medical professionals practice in underserved areas as we follow through on President Obama’s idea of tripling funding for the National Health Service Corps.
In New Hampshire, in Vermont, and across this country, we have a major epidemic of opiate and heroin addiction. People are dying everyday from overdoses.
Hillary Clinton understands that if we are serious about addressing this crisis, we need major changes in the way we deliver mental health treatment throughout this country. And that is what expanding community health centers will do and that is what getting medical personnel into the areas we need them most will do.
And what is Donald Trump’s position on health care? Well, no surprise there. Same old, same old Republican contempt for working families.
He wants to abolish the Affordable Care Act, throw 20 million people off of the health insurance they currently have, and cut Medicaid for low-income Americans.
The last thing we need today in America is a president who doesn’t care about whether millions of Americans will lose access to the health care access they desperately need. We need more people with access to quality health care, not fewer.
Hillary Clinton also understands that millions of our seniors, disabled veterans, and others are struggling with the outrageously high costs of prescription drugs.
She and I are in agreement that Medicare must negotiate drug prices with the pharmaceutical industry and that we must expand the use of generic medicine.
Drug companies should not be making billions in profits while one out of five Americans are unable to afford the medicine they need. The greed of the drug companies must end.

This election is about the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality that currently exists – the worst it has been in our country since 1928.
Hillary Clinton knows that something is fundamentally wrong when the very rich become richer while many others are working longer hours for lower wages.
She knows that it is absurd that middle class Americans are paying an effective tax rate higher than hedge fund millionaires and that there are corporations in this country that make billions of dollars in profit and yet because of the loopholes that their lobbyists created in a given year they do not pay a nickel in federal taxes. That is wrong.
While Hillary Clinton supports making our tax code fairer and more progressive, Donald Trump wants to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the very wealthiest people in this country. His reckless economic policies will not only exacerbate income and wealth inequality, they will increase our national debt by trillions of dollars.
This election is about thousands of young people I have met throughout this country who have left college deeply in debt, the many others who cannot afford to go to college and the need in this country to have the best educated workforce in a highly competitive global economy.
Hillary Clinton believes that we must substantially lower student debt and that we must make public colleges and universities tuition-free for the middle class and working families of this country.
This is a national initiative that will revolutionize higher education in this country and improve the lives of so many of our people.
Think of what it will mean – think of this when every child of this country regardless of the income of his or her family knows that if they study hard, that if they take school seriously, yes, they will be able to get a college education and leave school without debt.
This election is about climate change – the greatest environmental crisis facing our planet – and the need to leave this world in a way that is healthy and habitable for our children and future generations.
Hillary Clinton is listening to the scientists who tell us that if we do not act boldly in the very near future, there will be more drought, more floods, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels.
She understand that we must work with countries around the world in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels and into energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And that when we do that, we can create a whole lot of good-paying jobs.
Well, Donald Trump like most Republicans sadly and tragically is choosing to reject science. Something no presidential candidate should ever do.
He believes that climate change is a hoax. In fact, he wants to expand the use of fossil fuels. That would be a disaster for our country and for the entire planet.

This election is about the leadership we need to pass comprehensive immigration reform and repair a broken criminal justice system.
It’s about making sure that young people in this country are in good schools or at good jobs, not in jail cells.
Secretary Clinton understands that we do not need to have more people in jail than any other country on Earth and at an expense of $80 billion a year.
In these stressful times for our country, this election must be about bringing our people together, not dividing us up.
While Donald Trump is busy insulting Mexicans and Muslims and women and African-Americans and our veterans, Hillary Clinton understands that our diversity is one of our greatest strengths.
Yes, we become stronger when black and white, Latino, Asian-Americans, Native-Americans, all of us stand together.
Yes, we become stronger when men and women, young and old, gay and straight, native born and immigrant fight to rid this country of all forms of bigotry.
It is no secret that Hillary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues. That is what this campaign has been about. That is what democracy is about.
But I am happy to tell at the Democratic Platform Committee, which ended Sunday night in Orlando, there was a significant coming together between the two campaigns and we’ve produced by far the most progressive platform in the history of the Democratic Party.
Our job now is to see that platform implemented by a Democratically-controlled Senate, a Democratically-controlled House, and a Hillary Clinton presidency. And I intend to be in every corner of this country to make certain that happens.
I have known Hillary Clinton for 25 years. We were a bit younger then.
I remember her as a great First Lady, who broke precedence in terms of the role that a First Lady was supposed to play and as she helped lead the fight to universal health care.
I served with her in the U.S. Senate know her as a fierce advocate for the rights of our children.
And I know her and all of you know her as one of the most intelligent people that we have ever met.
Hillary Clinton will make an outstanding president and I am proud to stand with her today.
Thank you all very much!

…It is an honor…Thank you. Thank you very much.
It is an honor to be here tonight. Thank you! Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
It is an honor to be here tonight and to be following in the footsteps of my good friend, Elizabeth Warren, and to be here tonight to thank Michelle Obama for her incredible service to our country. She has made all of us proud.
Let me begin by thanking the hundreds of thousands of Americans who actively participated in our campaign as volunteers. Thank you.
Let me thank the 2.5 million Americans who helped fund our campaign with an unprecedented 8 million individual campaign contribution. Anyone know what that average contribution was? That’s right – $27.
And let me thank the 13 million Americans who voted for the political revolution, giving us the 1,846 pledged delegates here tonight.
And delegates, thank you for being here and thank you for all the work you have done. I look forward to your votes during the roll call tomorrow night.
And let me offer a special thanks to the people of my own state of Vermont who have sustained me and supported me as a mayor, congressman, senator, and presidential candidate.
And to my family, my wife, Jane, our four kids, and seven grandchildren, thank you very much.
I understand that many people here in this convention hall and around the country are disappointed about the final results of the nominating process.

So, is everybody here ready to transform America?
You’ve come to the right place. Thanks very much for being here.
I want to thank Secretary Clinton for inviting me to join her here in the great state of New Hampshire.
And today, I am asking all of you to think big, not small.
To understand that here in the United States, we are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world, and if we are prepared to stand together and not allow people to divide us up, if we are prepared to stand up to powerful and wealthy and greedy special interests, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish, no goal that we cannot achieve and that includes making fundamental changes in the way we fund higher education in our country.
Now, here is a simple truth.
Forty or fifty years ago, in New Hampshire and Vermont, virtually any place in America, you went out and you got a high school degree, the odds are that you can go out and get a decent-paying job and make it into the middle class.
That was the world 40 or 50 years ago.
But that is not the world today.

The world has changed. The global economy has changed. Technology has changed. And education has changed.
Today in a highly competitive global economy, if we are going to have as a people the kind of standard of living that the people of the United States deserve, we need to have the best educated workforce in the entire world.
But let me be very honest with you and tell you that sadly that is not the case today.
Our nation used to lead the world in the percentage of young Americans with college degrees. We were number one.
Today, we are number 15 and that is not acceptable.
And that is why Secretary Clinton and I understand that in today’s world when we talk about public education it’s no longer good enough to talk about the first grade through high school. That was good. That was wonderful 30 or 40 years ago; it is not enough today.
And today when we talk about public education, it must be making public colleges and universities tuition-free for the middle class and working families of this country.
Now, during the campaign, primary campaign, Secretary Clinton had some very strong proposals. I had a different approach.
But we came together after the campaign and reached an agreement that says that every family in this country earning $125,000 or less – that is 83% of our population – should be able to send their kids to public colleges and universities tuition-free.
And make no mistake about it, this is a revolutionary proposal for the future of our country with wide-reaching implications.
It means that first, students will not be leaving college with outrageous levels of student debt.
I went all over this country during the campaign and I talked to too many young people and people who were not so young who were paying off student debts of $30,000, $50,000, $100,000 and in some cases it was taking them decades to pay off those debts.
I want young people leave school excited about the future – the new businesses they’ll open up, getting married, having kids, buying a house – not being saddled with tens of thousands of dollars in student debt.
And secondly, making public colleges and universities tuition-free does something even more profound than just reducing student debt.
In my state of Vermont, here in New Hampshire and throughout this country, there are millions of low-income and working class families with kids who don’t know anybody who graduated college. Their parents didn’t graduate college; my parents never went to college.
And they are thinking to themselves there is no way in God’s Earth that they are ever going to make it through college and into the middle class.

What this proposal – Secretary Clinton’s proposal – tells us is that if you are a low-income family, a working class family, if your kid studies hard and does well, yes, regardless of the income of your family, your kid will be able to make it into college.
That is a big deal!
Today, hundreds of thousands of bright and qualified young people do not get a higher education for one reason and one reason alone – their family lacks the income.
That is unfair to those families. It is unfair to the future of this country.
How many great scientists and engineers and teachers and police officers aren’t out there, who will never get a chance to do what they could do because of lack of income of their families?
Secretary Clinton and I are going to change that. If you have the ability, you will be able to get a college education.
And while we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free for the middle class and working families of this country, we are also mindful that there are millions of people out there who have already incurred deep debt and we intend to change that and lower those student debts as well.
It makes no sense to us that when you go get an automobile loan, refinance your home for 2%, 3%, 4%, that there are millions of people stuck with interest rates on their student debts at 6%, 7%, 8%. People should be able to refinance those debts at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Now, some people will say – our critics will say, “It’s a good idea making public colleges and universities tuition free but it’s expensive. It costs a lot of money.”
And the truth is it is an expensive proposal. But I will tell you what is even more expensive and that is doing nothing.
We must invest in our young people and the future of this country.
And I will tell you something else that at a time when we have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, it is absurd, it is disgraceful for Donald Trump and his friends to be talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the top 1%.
I think that the overwhelming majority of the American people understand that it is far more important to invest in the future of our country than to give Donald Trump and his family – Donald Trump’s family – a $4 trillion tax break if Trump were to repeal the estate tax.
The Walton family, the wealthiest family in America, would get a $50 billion tax break.
So when you have Republicans telling us that it is okay to give tens and tens of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the richest people in this country, do not tell me that we cannot afford to make public colleges and universities tuition free.
All of you know that New Hampshire is a battleground state. All of you know that this is a very tight election, and in fact, New Hampshire could decide the outcome.
So I am asking you here today not only to vote for Secretary Clinton but to work hard to get your uncles and your aunts, to get your friends to vote.
If anybody tells you that this election is not important, you ask them why the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson and other billionaires, why they are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to elect their candidate.
This election is enormously important for the future of our country. It is imperative that we elect Hillary Clinton as our next president.
And with that, let me introduce, the next president of the United States, Hillary Clinton!

Thank you! Well, thank you!
Lisa, thank you. Thank you very much.
And let me thank all of you – all of you for coming out. I can’t quite see you but I understand there are a lot of people out there. Thank you very much for coming and I look forward to chatting with E.J. in a few moments.
But before we do, I just wanted to say a few words about the election and where we are today because I know there are a lot of people who are frightened, a lot of people who are extremely unhappy.
And I would not be telling you the truth if I didn’t tell you that Tuesday night was a very, very depressing evening for me.
But I want to maybe begin by telling you that as a result of having the privilege and the opportunity of running all over this country, going to 46 states during my campaign, I ended the campaign far, far more optimistic than when I began that campaign.
And the reason for that is all over this country, I saw extraordinarily beautiful people – working people, young people – who love this country and who are determined to do everything that they can to make the United States of America the kind of nation we know we can become.
And the other point that I want to make is as we move into the Trump era is to understand that real change and real politics never takes place from the top on down. It always occurs from the bottom on up.
And what that means in my view is that when millions of people stand together and they refuse to allow demagoguery to divide us up by race, by the country we were born in, by our sexual orientation, when we stand together by the millions, we can stop Mr. Trump or anyone else from doing bad things to this country.
So as Lisa just mentioned but I have always believed is that election days are very, very important days to be sure, and elections are enormously important.
But politics is not just about elections. If you think about our history as a nation and the profound changes that have taken place, what you understand is that change only takes place when millions of people look around them and they say that the status quo is not working and are prepared to fight for social, racial, economic, and environmental justice.
So I just want to in terms of the election make three points.
Number one, in case you don’t know, and I’m sure most of you do, Hillary Clinton ended up winning the popular vote by what we think after all the votes are counted by about 2 million votes.

Number two, if you are a progressive, on issue after issue, whether it is raising the minimum wage to a living wage, whether it is pay equity for women, whether it is rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure and creating millions of decent-paying jobs, whether it is reforming a broken criminal justice system or a broken immigration system, whether it is making public colleges or universities tuition free, whether it is demanding that the wealthy start paying their fair share of taxes, on all of those issues and more, the American people are on our side. Don’t ever forget that.
Now, during the course of his campaign, Mr. Trump – and I should tell you that in that campaign, I was as active as I could be. During the last week of that campaign, I was in 12 battleground states giving 21 speeches at rallies all over this country because I thought that it was absolutely imperative that we do everything that we can to make sure that Hillary Clinton was elected and not Donald Trump. But it didn’t turn out that way.
And here is where we are today.
It seems to me, three things – four things. Number one – five things. Who knows? We don’t know.
During the course of his campaign, which clearly – and we have to acknowledge this – was certainly one of the most unusual campaigns ever run by a candidate, Mr. Trump said a whole lot of things. A whole lot of things. And sometimes I think they would just come off the top of his head.
And toward the end of the campaign, he was actually using the term that many Democrats don’t use. He was saying that he was going to be the champion of the American working class. That’s what he said.
Well, Mr. Trump, we have a list of everything that you said, and we are going to hold you to account.
And what I think Mr. Trump did – and this speaks to why I personally believe we need major, major reforms of the Democratic Party – what Mr. Trump said and talked about is something that the pundits here in Washington have not a clue about and the corporate media has very little understanding about.
And that is what he understood to be true, and it is true, is despite the fact that today we are far, far better off economically after eight years of Obama than we were when Bush left office that that is true, there is another reality and that is that all across this country, there are millions and millions of decent good people who are frighten about the world that they are living in.
There are mothers out there – single moms or young couples – who are making $30,000, $40,000, $50,000 a year – mom and dad are working. They need child care for their children, and yet child care costs $10,000 or $15,000. How do you afford $15,000 for child care when you are making $40,000 or $50,000 a year?
There are workers in my state who see an explosion in technology. They see the very wealthiest people in this country becoming phenomenally richer. They see large corporations enjoying record-breaking profits. And yet, they are working not at one job, they’re working at two jobs. They are working at three jobs.
There are people all over this country who are 55, 60 years of age. They have worked their entire lives, and now they are going to be retiring soon. And you know what? Half of those older workers do not have a nickel in the bank for retirement.
There are young people who went deeply into debt – $30,000, $50,000, $80,000 in debt in order to go to college, but when they leave school, they find that the only jobs they can get are jobs which pay them $12, $14 an hour, not enough to repay their debt.
That is the reality for millions of people in this country.

And that is the reality of a middle class, which has been in decline for the last 40 years.
That is the reality of 43 million fellow Americans who today are living in poverty, something that we do not talk about at all, not mentioned on television, and some in dire poverty.
We are living in a nation which has a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality in which the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
And that is the reality that Mr. Trump perceived to be true, and he said “I hear you are hurting. And I hear and understand you’re worried about the future for your kids. And I alone can do something about it.” And people voted for him.
Now, let me just tell you some of what Mr. Trump talked about, and we’re going to hold him accountable.
Mr. Trump said unlike many Republicans – the vast majority of Republicans – said we – he will not cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
Now, I believe we should expand Social Security. I believe in a Medicare for all program. But that is what he said. And pay attention to see what he now does.
The question that will be resolved pretty quickly is whether or not everything that he was saying to the working families of this country is hypocrisy, was dishonest, or whether he was sincere. And we will find that out soon enough.
But number one, no cuts, says Mr. Trump, to Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
Mr. Trump says he wants to invest a trillion dollars in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. That is a good sum of money. That is exactly what we should be doing and we can create millions of good-paying jobs if we do that.
Mr. Trump, that’s what you said on the campaign trail. That’s what we look forward to seeing from you.
Now, I happen to believe that the federal minimum wage of $7.25 today is a starvation wage, that it should be raised to $15 an hour – a living wage.
Mr. Trump did not that but what he did say is we should raise the minimum wage to $10 an hour. Not enough but a start, and we will hold him to those words.
Mr. Trump said that Wall Street dangerous, doing bad things. He wants to re-establish Glass-Steagall legislation. I look forward to working with him.
Mr. Trump said he wants six weeks of paid maternity leave. Well, every other major country on Earth has I think at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave but this is a start. This is a start. We look forward to working with him if he is honest about that.
Mr. Trump said throughout his campaign, a cornerstone of his campaign, he wants to change our disastrous trade policies. As somebody who voted against every one of these trade policies, I look forward to working with him to make that happen.
So I think what you will see on Capitol Hill is many Democrats will be prepared to work with Mr. Trump if he turns out to be sincere about the promises he made during the campaign.
If those promises turn out to be hollow, if they were nothing more than campaign rhetoric, we will not only oppose his economic policies, we will expose that hypocrisy as well.
But there is an area where I – and I think I can speak for virtually every member of the Democratic Caucus – will not be working with Mr. Trump.

We will not be involved in the expansion of bigotry, of racism, sexism, homophobia.
This country, as you all know, since our inception, has struggled to overcome discrimination of all forms, and that is racism and sexism and xenophobia and homophobia.
For hundreds of years, extraordinarily brave people have stood up and some of them have died in the struggle to end discrimination in America.
And I say to Mr. Trump from the bottom of my heart, and I know I speak for millions of fellow Americans, Mr. Trump, we are not going backwards in terms of bigotry. We’re going to go forward in creating a non-discriminatory society.
And in that regard, I call upon Mr. Trump to rescind the appointment that he made of Mr. [Steve] Bannon. A president of the United States should not have a racist at his side. Unacceptable.
And there is another area which concerns me very much and that is despite virtually all of the scientific evidence, Mr. Trump throughout his campaign proclaimed that his view is that climate change is a hoax created for whatever reason in China. Couldn’t quite figure that out.
And I say to Mr. Trump, climate change is not a hoax. It is the great planetary crisis that we face and that if we do not act boldly to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel through energy efficiency and sustainable energy, the planet that we will be leaving to our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren will be far less healthy and habitable than the one that we have today.
And this is an issue in which millions of Americans and people all over the world – this is not just an American issue; this is a global issue because if the United States backs down and gives up on the effort to combat climate change, all over the world, China, Russia, India, other countries are going to say, “Why are we doing it? Why are we transforming our energy system? Look at America. They’re not doing it.”
So, millions of us have got to stand up and tell Mr. Trump to read a little bit about science, to start listening to the scientific community, and not the CEOs of the fossil fuel industry.
Well, let me just before E.J. comes out, let me just read a few words – a couple of pages – in order to get the discussion going from the very beginning. The introduction to the book.
This is what I wrote:
When we began our race for the presidency in April 2015, we were considered by the political establishment and the media to be a “fringe” campaign – something not to be taken seriously.
After all, I was a senator from a small state with very little name recognition. Our campaign had no money, no political organization, and we were taking on the entire Democratic Party establishment. And, by the way, we were also running against the most powerful political operation in the country.

The Clinton machine had won the presidency for Bill Clinton twice and almost won the Democratic presidential nomination for Hillary Clinton in 2008.
When our campaign finally came to a close in July 2016, it turned out that the pundits had got it wrong big time.
We had made history and run one of the most consequential campaigns in the modern history of the country, a campaign that would in a very profound way change America.
We received more than 13 million votes in primaries and caucuses throughout the country. We won 22 states – more than a few by landslide proportions. We won 1,846 pledged delegates to the Democratic Convention – 46% of the total.
Importantly, in virtually every state, we won a strong majority of younger people – the future of America. We won large percentages of the vote from white, black, Latino, Asian-American, and Native American youths.
We set the agenda for the America of tomorrow.
Thank you.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
And as I think about it in retrospect, it turns out to have been a very democratic approach. Everybody knew. You couldn’t bullshit anybody else. You knew if you were the best ball player or the third best. Everybody knew it. There was no argument about that.
And we worked it out whether you were safe at second base or not, who brought the ball, whether we were going to play football or punchball or baseball.
It was a means of young people without adult supervision working out things so that they can play actively and fairly choose up their teams, decide who wins or loses.
If we’re playing basketball and it’s a three-man game, my team beats your team, your team quietly goes to the side, another team comes on. They beat me. We go off to the side. Everybody understood the rules.
It was interesting. It was very much a democratic approach to how we do things.
Now, what happened is our family didn’t have a lot of money, and in the summer time my parents would send my brother and me – him early, he was older – to Boy Scout Camp. Ten Mile River Boy Scout Camp in Narrowsburg, New York.
And we went up there, and I said, “My God, look at this. This is the country. There are stars in the night. Who knew that?”
And we slept in lean tubes, which were small structures without any doors. The mattresses that we had were literally hay put into sheets. It was a pretty primitive way of living but I loved it. I really did.
And that was my first introduction to rural life and certainly influenced my decision early on to move to the state of Vermont.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Well, you know, you’re asking a very profound question of which I really can’t answer. That is you’re really asking how do we turn out the way we turn out and why do we become the people we become.
Ever since I was a little kid, I really did not like to see bullies. I didn’t like to see, you know, stronger kids picking on weaker kids. I didn’t like, you know, discrimination. I didn’t like that. I didn’t like power plays on the part of people who had the power.
But that was just kind of instinctual.
And you know, as a kid, I felt strongly about racism and poverty.
And when I went to the University of Chicago, I was not a good student but what I did do was spent an enormous amount of time down in what they called the stacks of the library. It’s a very good library. And I would bury myself in there reading everything that I could read about history and politics and sociology and economics and psychology. I did a whole lot of reading.
I was a terrible – not terrible – I was not a good student. Let’s say that. But I did a whole lot of reading.
But what Young People’s Socialist League did to me – it helped me put two and two together in my mind.
In other words, we don’t like poverty. We don’t like racism. We don’t like war. We don’t like exploitation. What do they all have in common?
And people say, “Well, I’m against poverty.” But why, for example, at a time when we are the wealthiest country in the history of the world, why do we have 43 million people living in poverty? Why do we have such an unfair distribution of wealth and income? What does wealth and power mean? How does it influence politics?
Money always play a dominant role – a very important role – in who gets elected. Now, as a result of Citizens United, it is far worse.
Who decided that World War I would take place? Who even knows why we went to war in World War I? What was that about? Who makes these decisions?
So what my studies tried to do is to put two and two and two together. And that is why, you know, I kind of evolved to an analysis which tries to explain to me why what goes on in the world today and then.

Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
So that’s absolutely true as the people of Burlington, Vermont will attest to.
What is also true is a few years ago I had the distinction of being named by some inside the Beltway magazine here to be the worst dressed member of the United States Senate.
And all I can say if you think I am badly dressed now…
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
This section of the book you referred to was an event that I went to at Dartmouth Medical School. And I was then in the Congress and Hillary Clinton was First Lady and leading Bill Clinton’s administration’s effort for health care reform. And I was able to hitch a ride on Air Force Two with her and we chatted for a while and we went to Dartmouth because Dartmouth was only across the river from Vermont.
And what blew me away is she got up there and I’m guess now. It was a long time ago. But maybe for an hour, she spoke without any notes whatsoever. Without a note. On an enormously complicated program, which was their health care approach, which was too complicated. But she knew it all.
My point was that she was not just the front person for the Clinton health care program. She had helped write it. She really knew it. She answered questions flawlessly. And this tells me that we have an extraordinarily intelligent person and that was the memory then.
And that hasn’t changed. I have a lot of respect for Hillary Clinton. We’ve known each other for 25 years. Got to know each other for better or worse a little bit more in the last year and a half. And she’s a very impressive and I like her a lot.
On the other hand, on the other hand, what is very clear is her politics and Bill Clinton’s politics are very different than mine in terms of their policy views and in terms of their understanding of how you change America.
In terms of policy, it was the Clinton administration that brought forth NAFTA, and I suspect if a Democrat had not been president at that time, NAFTA would not have passed. And I think that was the beginning of a series of disastrous trade agreements done at the behest of the corporate world. Big money wanted these trade agreements. They wrote these trade agreements.
It was the Clinton administration that brought about the deregulation of Wall Street led by Robert Rubin, formerly from Citibank I think at that point. Wall Street, major Wall Street force.
And the point that I’m making is that I happen to believe that at the end of the day politically you have to make a decision, and this is really the debate that we’re going to have within the Democratic Party right now. And that debate is which side are you on?

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Can you go out and raise substantial sums of money from the wealthy and Wall Street and other powerful special interests and then convince the American people that you are on the side of workers and the middle class?
Or do you finally have to say that we are going to take on the oligarchs, we are going to take on Wall Street and the drug companies, and the insurance companies, and the corporate media and that we are going to bring millions of working people together to create a very different type of party – Democratic Party – than currently exists?
And that is a fundamental difference that exists between Bill and Hillary Clinton and myself.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Well, I say to those critics number one that you could argue the exact reverse, that maybe I would have been elected president of the United States.
But the presumption behind that question is that I guess we should anoint candidates for president, that a serious debate or candidates competing against each other is somehow a bad thing for democracy.
The truth is, E.J., my campaign brought millions of people into the political process, many of whom I suspect the overwhelming majority of whom ended up voting for Hillary Clinton.
But the second point dealing with the first part of the question, you know, I think many people have read some of the Wikipedia – the Podesta emails that were released. And you know, if you read those emails, I think you learn that to say the very least, the DNC was not a neutral force in the campaign. That’s to say the least.
And that we had to take on – and I’m proud of this – we had to take on the entire – virtually – the entire Democratic establishment.
So you know, do I think that our campaign in a sense made Hillary Clinton a better candidate? Yeah, I do, and I’ll tell you why. You know, because by the end of the campaign, she was against the Keystone Pipeline. By the end of the campaign, she was against the TPP. By the end of the campaign, she was supporting making public colleges and universities tuition free.
And I think those and other ideas that we incorporated into the Democratic platform, which is the most progressive party platform in the history of this country, I think all of that in fact made Hillary Clinton a stronger candidate.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Apparently people thought that California – people in California and Florida are the states on June 7th should not have a right to determine who they wanted to see as –
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
After California, this was my approach. My approach was to say I am fully prepared to support Hillary Clinton.
And by the way, very few people in this country worked harder for Hillary Clinton than I did. So let’s be clear about that.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
But what I was also determined to do is to say to Secretary Clinton, “Okay, we got 13.4 million votes. Obviously you want those votes. I understand that. And I want you to have those votes. But you know what? I want you to speak to what many of those people told me during the campaign. They want to make public colleges and universities tuition-free. They want to expand health care. They want you to be a more progressive candidate.”
And that in fact ended up happening, and I think that was an asset and a positive thing for Secretary Clinton’s campaign.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Okay, well, it doesn’t fit at all.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
But here is the issue. It is – in fact, I think the title of the chapter is “The corporate media – a threat to our democracy”.
This is serious stuff and it is all the more serious because you’re not going to see it discussed on television. It’s not going to be and it’s not going to be in most newspapers.
But here’s what you’ve got. You have approximately six major media conglomerates. Time Warner, et cetera. Who now control 90% of what we call media. Which means that a handful of giant conglomerates exercise enormous power over what the American people see, hear, and read.
And we have got to disabuse ourselves of the idea that NBC and CBS and CNN and Fox that they’re objective. They’re kind of referees. They’re going to give both sides of the story.
The function of corporate media and I hope I don’t shock anybody is to make money. That is their job. They’re a business. They make money.
And in fact, somebody like a Donald Trump…I think the heads of CBS and CNN both said Trump was great for them. He was outrageous. He said outrageous things. Their ratings went up. Put him on again. Every time you turn on the television, there’s Donald Trump saying something outrageous, attacking somebody. Great TV.
Now, we had the misfortune of not being a campaign which believed that we should viciously attack our opponent. Okay? And I try to run as positive a campaign as I could.
And I also believed that a campaign – what democracy is about is taking a hard look at the real issues facing the country and offering solutions to those problems.
The problem is I could not do that in three seconds and the problem is that is not what media is interested in, getting back to what E.J. just read, and what he read is that study after study tells us most of television coverage is attacks. All right? And that works very well for television.
How much discussion – and this blew me away and this is in the book. I quoted some guy who did a study and this is what the study said. The study said they looked at television over a period of time and they wanted to see how much discussion there was of poverty on television. I think it was the evening news. The evening news. Or Sunday news shows. I can’t remember. Turns out that two-thirds of the entire discussion of poverty was based on things that I said.
Now that is pretty pathetic that one candidate does two-thirds of the discussion about one of the most important issues facing this country.
Do you know how much discussion there is about climate change on the evening news? Virtually none.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Do you know how much discussion there is about comparing the American health care system to what goes on around the rest of the industrialized world where every country guarantees health care to all people? Virtually none.
So the point about my critique was not that you know, “The media hates me” and all that stuff. That wasn’t the point. The point was that in a democracy, we need serious discussion about serious issues and that is not what the corporate media is giving us.
Now, Trump’s problem is that the media is discovering was a pathological liar.
And I don’t say that – I’m not into – I really don’t – I have many Republican friends and we disagree. But everyday this guy would say something that was completely off – he was the only person in America who saw on television Muslims celebrating the destruction of the Twin Towers. Nobody else in America saw that on television except Donald Trump, and he was absolutely convinced that he saw that and on and on it goes.
And the media had a hard time because they were trying to say, “Well, that’s not quite true” and he would take offense to them. That’s a very different critique than my feelings.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Well, I think I tried to cover that in my earlier remarks. And let us be clear. There are people in America who are racists. There are people in America who are sexists, who are homophobes, who saw in the very ugly remarks made by Mr. Trump somebody who they felt comfortable with.
But let me also say I believe that those people are a very small minority of the people who voted for Mr. Trump.
As I said earlier, I think what Trump tapped is the sentiment that there are millions of working class people totally ignored by the media, totally ignored by the establishment. People who are hurting.
Do you know, E.J., I’m sure you’re familiar with some of the studies that have recently come out where you have in many parts of this country working people, working class people are seeing a decline in life expectancy. Have you seen that? Where they in a ahistorical way – unprecedented around the world – you are seeing people who are living shorter lives than their parents because of the despair which leads them to drugs, to alcohol, and to suicide.
People are hurting. They’re worried about their children. They’re making $10 an hour or $12 an hour and they’re not going any place and they’re worried that their kids may even do worse. They’re worried about what happens when they get old.
Trump said, “I hear you. And I alone. I know how the system works, and I alone can improve your lives.”
So I think a lot of people gave up on the Democratic Party in terms of standing up for working people and they said, “Okay, I’m going to go with this guy.”
But let me also say, and we should not forget this, that Trump enters the White House as the least popular person in this position in the history of this country.
So don’t think that everybody agrees with his sexist remarks, his attacks on women, his racist remarks. That would not be the case. I think there are a lot of people out of desperation – like I’m hurting. I’m in pain. I’m worried about my kids. This guy says he’s going to do something for me. I’m going to give him a shot.
That’s why I think he got elected.

Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Let me start off with Megan [sp] and say that as I tried to suggest early on that every person out here is enormously powerful if you are prepared to use your power. And that in a democracy, we are strong when people stand up and fight back and we are weak when we do not do that.
So what I say to Megan and to everybody here and everybody in this country, the majority of people in this nation are not racists, they’re not sexists, they’re not homophobes. And if we stand together, Mr. Trump will not be able to implement policies that are racist, sexist, and homophobe.
Second of all, I think what we also have got to recognize and what Trump’s success was about which the media and inside the Beltway people do not understand is that there are millions of people who are hurting.
So what we are going to do is to say to Mr. Trump, “You told us in the campaign you were going to take on Wall Street, but now a lot of Wall Street advisers are flocking to your campaign. Are you going to be a hypocrite? Or do you have the guts to do the right thing? You said you’re going to rebuild the infrastructure and create millions of jobs.”
In other words, our job is when he comes up with ideas that make sense for working people, I think we should be working with him.
When he is racist and sexist and homophobe and Islamophobe, I think we are going to be vigorously in opposition.
And I think on climate change, there is no compromise. We have got to mobilize the American people.
…And this gets back to transforming the Democratic Party. Ordinary people have got to know that the Democratic Party has the guts to stand up to some very powerful people today whose greed is destroying the middle class and working class of this country.
And if we can’t do that, I don’t see much of a future for the Democratic Party.

Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
I can only speak for myself. I don’t want to speak for everybody else.
…Look, the Republican Party has been extraordinarily arrogant in recent years. The idea that they would not even hold a hearing for Garland when it is crystal clear that our Constitution provides for the president to nominate an individual to become Supreme Court justice and the Senate holds hearings and goes about its business about whether or not they want to approve that individual.
And the Republicans refused to abide by the Constitution.
And I think if the Republicans think, “Oh, we’re going to bring forth our person and we expect you to go along with quick hearings and to vote for this person,” to say the least, I think they have another thing – they better think twice about that.
But E.J., it is obviously terribly important what happens in the Senate, what happens in the House. But it is far, far more important what happens at the grassroots level in this country.
I was named today, as you indicated, a part of the leadership. I think my title is to be the head of outreach efforts and that’s something that I take very seriously. So I think again whether it’s the Supreme Court, whether it’s the fight against bigotry, whether it’s the fight for climate change, our job is to bring millions of people together.
Republicans are many things. They are not dumb. And especially with regard to young people.
If they see millions of young people demanding action on climate change, demanding that our energy system be transformed, if they say, see young people saying “We do not want to leave college $40,000, $50,000, $100,000 in debt,” if young people are prepared to stand up, if working people are prepared to stand up and demand a minimum wage which is a living wage, if we’re all prepared to stand up and demand pay equity for women, if we are prepared to fight for a woman’s right to choose, and millions of us come together, it is no secret – I mean, everybody here knows it – Republicans will control the presidency, they’ll control the House, they’ll control the Senate, they’ll control almost two-thirds of the state legislatures around the country. That is the fact. Our job is to take politics outside of Capitol Hill, and that is to mobilize people.
And if the Republicans, you know, if Mitch McConnell or Paul Ryan, these are not dummies. And if they look around and they say, “We are about to lose an entire generation of young people, we’d better move. We’d better become more reasonable in our approach.”
I believe we can do that. But our job is to mobilize people to stand up and fight back.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Well, the political difficulty that we have – and this frightens me very, very much and should frighten every American – is that we are rapidly losing our American democratic traditions.
And by that I mean, in Vermont, we have town meetings. People come out and they yell at each other, and it’s one person, one vote. Democracy wins.
What we are seeing now as a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision is the ability of billionaires to buy elections.
And let me be very clear about this. Mitch McConnell and many Republicans believe that Citizens United did not go far enough. They believe that we should end all campaign finance restrictions, limitations, and that billionaires should be able to give directly, not independent expenditures, that if you want to run for office, the Koch brothers will come up to you and say, “E.J., here is a billion dollars. We’re going to support your campaign for presidency and we will give you your staff. You work for us. You’re essentially a paid employee of the Koch brothers.”

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Now, we’ve got to figure out, that’s number one, and number two, we’ve got to deal with the Republican effort at voter suppression all over this country.
Now, I just spoke with Jesse Jackson today and he is deeply concerned about what’s going on in North Carolina and elsewhere where very intentional efforts as you all know designed by Republican governors and Attorney General to make it harder for people of color, for poor people, for young people or old people to vote.
So we’ve got a lot of work on our hands. Let me tell you. I mean, this is not easy stuff and it’s not enough for people to say, “Well, gee, I went to a demonstration yesterday. The world didn’t change. I’m giving up.” That’s not the way it happens.
Put yourself into a historical context. Think about the struggles 100 plus years ago that workers went through in order to gain dignity on the job and to form unions.
Think about what women went through for a very long period of time in order to get the right to vote, in order to get the right to have an education or the job that they wanted. Some of those women died in the struggle. Some went on hunger strikes. Some ended up in jail.
Think about the struggles of the gay community, how many decades and decades they fought with their straight allies in order to receive, make sure people have the right to marry someone regardless of their gender.
Change does not come easily. We are in a struggle, and we are in a struggle against very, very powerful people who want it all. That’s the bad news.
The good news is there are a hell of a lot more of us than there are of them, and we’ve got to be smart and figure that out.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
E.J., I’ve got to tell you this. I am Larry David. And I fooled you, didn’t I? Sanders is back in Vermont, and I’m here and you fell for it.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
I had the – and I’ll tell you something else about television. Go on Saturday Night Live and suddenly a lot of people know you who didn’t know you before. I’ll tell you that.
Larry David is a brilliant comedian. He’s a brilliant guy and it was a little bit scary watching him do me. He does me better than I do me.
You know, in terms of the second question, one of the – before I ran for mayor of Burlington, I was doing – I did a video. And what I wanted to do and I would have done probably in my life if I hadn’t gotten elected mayor was to try to talk about political figures in our history who’ve kind of been wiped out of history, who, you know, the media doesn’t talk about very much.
And there are some extraordinary people throughout our history who have done remarkable, courageous things that we don’t know about.
And I did a video about one of the great people in American history. His name is Eugene V. Debs.
Now, I would be surprised if 10% of the American people knew who Debs was. And yet, Debs was one of the original great leaders of the American working class, helped form the American Railway Union, brought together a lot of disparate unions into one large union. In fact, developed a program along with the Socialist Party of his time. He ran for president under the Socialist Party six times, including once from a jail cell because he opposed World War I and he was sent to jail and he got a million votes from a jail cell.

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
So I think, you know, from a historical perspective, he was an extraordinary man. I would not mind spending some time with him on an island some place, preferably a warm island.
The other person that I think everyone has heard of but doesn’t really fully his strength and his genius is Martin Luther King, Jr.
What the media – see, what the media has done with King over the years is to say, “Well, this guy was a brave guy. He was a great guy. He helped break down segregation in the south, helped bring the Voting Rights Act, and he was just really, really great.”
What they do not tell you and what they kind of try to erase from history is I hope all of you know that when King was assassinated, he was not on a “civil rights” demonstration. He was out helping garbage workers in Memphis, Tennessee who were really working for terrible wages and terrible working conditions.
He was also in the process of forming and putting together a Poor People’s March, which was blacks and whites and Native Americans and Latinos, poor people, demanding changes in national priorities instead of spending unlimited sums of money on the military making sure that people had health care and education opportunities.
The point that I’m trying to make here is that if you read King’s life, you understand that he was extraordinarily courageous in standing up to the establishment.
What the establishment wanted from him is – “You’re a great civil rights leader.” And he said, “Thank you but no, thank you. I am going to oppose the war in Vietnam.” Boy, did they not want to hear that.
And then he said, “You know what? I think we need to change our national priorities. We need take on the wealthy and the powerful.” They did not want to hear that as well.
So this was a man of great courage and magnitude. Also somebody I wouldn’t mind spending time with on a desert island.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
It is. And you know, I don’t want to speak about more than I know. I mean, I think I can simply say that I believe what Hillary Clinton said the other day is true. I think that effort hurt her at the end of the campaign, no question about it. It hurt her once and it hurt her twice when a few days before the election day they decided that there was nothing new in the emails that they had perused.
It is – this whole situation now of cyber security – I mean, this what the Russians we think have done raises this unbelievable issue of whether or not anything we have online is in fact private and secure. I mean, that’s just an extraordinary thought. Think about your medical records. Your banking records. Every damn email that you have sent out. Can somebody access it? And we’re beginning to think yes, that is the case, which makes me think above and beyond Russia that we really legislation to catch up with this exploding technology to ensure privacy for the American people.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Well, let me start with the second and this again, you know, I know some of my Democratic friends will be in disagreement with me.
I voted for the Affordable Care Act – so-called Obamacare – and got some major provisions in there which greatly expanded community health centers for many, many millions of people.
But at the end of the day, what we have to say is that the question is we have to ask ourselves on health care is a pretty simple question – how does it happen that we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care to all people as a right? How does it happen that despite 28 million people having no health insurance and many others being under-insured, we end up spending far, far more per capita on health care?

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
And how does it happen that our health care outcomes are not in many cases better than other countries?
In other words, we have a health care system, which is basically dysfunctional and I happen to believe we need to move toward a Medicare for all single-payer program.
In terms of the electoral college, as we all know, electoral college, Hillary Clinton got we think at the end of the day maybe 2 million more votes than Mr. Trump, but she’s not going to be the president of the United States.
On the surface, that doesn’t seem to make a lot of sense in a democratic society.
But on top of that, you’ve got the absurdity – and you know, I can tell you firsthand – that this entire campaign was played out in 15 or 16 states.
All right? So the assumption is, let’s say, California and Vermont are Democratic, no one has to worry about that. Wyoming and South Dakota are Republican. No one has to worry about that. We don’t have to pay attention to the needs of the people in those states.
So people in Wyoming don’t get any candidates coming there. People in Vermont don’t get any candidates coming there. California – the largest state in this country – is ignored politically. Their needs, their problems are ignored.
So I think we have to re-think the whole electoral college. We should not have a campaign where two thirds of the states in this country are ignored. Every vote matters. The vote in California, the vote in Wyoming, candidates for president should have to go after every one of those vote. I think that would create a better democracy than what we have right now.
Question:
[Omitted]
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
I think that after what appeared to be a never-ending campaign in 2016, the last thing the American people are worried about now is who’s going to run in 2020.
…But the first question is the more important one. What do we do?
And this is what I think we do. We make it clear that as a people, we will  not accept for one second bigotry of any kind, racism, sexism, Islamophobia, xenophobia. We are not going to sit by while a handful of people in the White House decide to destroy families and deport millions of people. We are not going to sit by and allow those things to happen.
The second thing I think we have got to do is on issues like rebuilding a crumbling middle class, dealing with climate change and transforming our energy system, we have got to mobilize people around progressive politics.
And here is the good news. The good news right now is that the vast majority of the American people, not the Republican leadership in Congress but the vast majority of the American people believe we should raise the minimum wage to a living wage.
And when we mobilize millions of people to make the White House and the leadership in the House and the Senate understand that, it becomes at their peril to ignore than reality.
Climate change is a tougher issue because in fact Trump campaigned in opposition to transforming our energy system. But this is an issue that we are just going to have to mobilize like crazy because let me say this. In my view, the future of the planet is at stake and we must transform our energy system.
