Morning. Thanks very much for being here.
Let me say a special word of thanks to my long-time friend, Congressman Elijah Cummings of Baltimore. I think there’s nobody in the House who’s worked harder over the years to address the issue that we’re going to talk about now and that is the need to lower the outrageously high price of prescription drugs in this country. Congressman, thank you very much for all that you’ve done.
We are here today to talk about an issue of huge consequence to the American people – an issue that in my view does not get the kind of attention that it deserves.
And that is the fact that the American people today are paying by far the highest prices in the world for the prescription drugs that they need.
When we are talking about health care, we are talking about the need of the American people to be able to afford the medicine their doctors prescribe.
A life-saving drug does nobody any good if the patient cannot afford that product and that is happening far too often in our country.
Last year – this is really quite unbelievable. Last year, nearly one out of every five Americans between the ages of 19 and 64 – that’s 35 million people – did not get their prescriptions filled because they did not have enough money. They couldn’t afford it.
And I remember talking to doctors in working class areas in Vermont and they said “We’re writing our prescriptions and about a quarter of the people they write it for can’t fill the prescriptions.”
What sense is that?
In other words, people all over this country walk into a doctor’s office because they are sick. They pay for their visit. The doctor spends time diagnosing their problems. And then the doctor writes out a prescription to treat the illness but 20% of our people are unable to afford the medicine they need that the doctor had just prescribed.
Then what happens if somebody is sick and doesn’t get the medicine they need? Well, obviously they will get sicker and in some cases they will die.
This is an unacceptable situation that we have to address.
I should tell you that all over this country, people have contacted my office. We have close to 1,000 people who have written to us about the impact of the high cost of prescription drugs on their lives.
And I’ll just read one – and there are many – and this is from a person in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, who writes “ADVAIR – the asthma medicine I need – with my insurance was a couple of hundred dollars. And when I didn’t have insurance, it was over $300. I’m a part-time teacher that didn’t get insurance through work and doesn’t get paid during the summer. Before I can afford to start up insurance again, I had a major asthma attack and I honestly thought I was going to die on the sidewalk.”
So that’s what’s happening to people all over this country who simply cannot afford the medicine they desperately need.
The American people should not have to go without the medication they need because Congress does not have the courage to stand up to one of the most powerful lobbying operations here on Capitol Hill and that is the pharmaceutical industry.
The time has come to say very loudly and clearly that enough is enough. The greed of the pharmaceutical industry is killing Americans and making many of them much sicker than they otherwise would have been.
It has got to stop.
It is unacceptable that while millions of Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs they need, the top 3 pharmaceutical companies made a combined $45 billion in profits last year and spent more on sales and marketing than they did on research and development.
It is unacceptable that total spending on medicine in the United States of America has gone up by more than 90% since 2002.
It is unacceptable that the monthly cost of cancer drugs has more than double in the last 10 years to $990 a month.
And I think many of you have seen a letter written by oncologists talking about how their patients are unable to purchase the cancer drugs that they are prescribing.
Instead of listening to the demands of the pharmaceutical industry and their 1,400 lobbyists – an industry where it spent over $250 million last year on campaign contributions and lobbying expenses – it is about time for Congress to start listening to the vast majority of the American people who know there’s something wrong when we pay by far the highest drug prices in the world.
It is time for the United States to join the rest of the industrialized world by implementing prescription drug policies that work for everybody not just the CEOs of the pharmaceutical industry.
And let me just very briefly summarize some of the components of the bill that Congressman Cummings and I will be introducing today.
First, the bill requires Medicare to use its bargaining power to negotiate with the prescription drug companies for better prices. This is not a radical idea – something that the VA, other government agencies do.
When you purchase a lot of product, you use the power – the leverage – of that bulk purchasing to force down prices.
Two, this bill would allow individuals, pharmacists, and wholesalers to import prescription drugs from licensed Canadian pharmacies where drug prices are 40% lower per person than they are in the United States of America.
Back in 1999, I was the first member of Congress to take Americans over the Canadian border. I lived 100 miles away from Canada. We border Canada in Vermont.
And I will never forget as long as I live women who were struggling with breast cancer purchasing a product they needed – a medicine they needed – for one-tenth of the price that they were paying in the United States of America.
And I know I’ve got a lot of colleagues out there who believe in free trade. They love free trade. And somehow or another despite their great love for free trade, we have distributors who cannot import medicine from Canada. Doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to me.
Number three, this bill will hold the pharmaceutical industry accountable when they defraud the American people.
Today, nearly every pharmaceutical company has been convicted of either civil or criminal fraud.
Fourth, this bill would end pay-for-delay – a practice which brand name prescription drug companies pay other companies not to manufacture cheaper generic drugs.
I’m delighted that the legislation that Congressman Cummings and I are introducing is endorsed by the Alliance for Retired Americans, Social Security Works, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Families USA, and many other groups.
So we are onto an issue that I believe the American people want to resolved. And I’m very proud to be working with Congressman Cummings.
But come on, now. But when we reach that breaking point in light of 1,000% price increases and more – 1,000% and more in price increases – American families are simply just fed up with trying to afford their medications as they watch drug companies rake in record profits.
Just this morning, about an hour ago when I met with the Attorney General Loretta Lynch, I asked her to look into this to try to figure out why this is happening and take appropriate action.
Sen. Sanders and I believe that urgent action is needed to reverse this alarming trend and increase access to life-saving medications to millions of Americans.
That is why I’m very pleased to join him in his effort and in this effort to introducing the House version of the Prescription Drug Affordability Act of 2015.
This bill is a bold and comprehensive approach to reducing prescription drug prices in the United States.
This problem deserves a bold remedy and that’s what we are attempting to do.
It includes reforms that would improve the Medicare and Medicaid programs. It includes common sense changes to make it easier for consumers to access affordable medications and it includes provisions that will enhance transparency, encourage competition, and bring much-needed accountability to the prescription drug industry.
If this bill is enacted, it would help put people before profits, and it would make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible to American families.
Finally, some people are asking why we are doing this when it is clear that Republicans will oppose our efforts.
Well, let me close by again citing another Kaiser Family Foundation survey. An April survey found that the increasing cost of prescription drug prices is now the number one health care issue among 66% of Republicans. In fact, it even displaces the Affordable Care Act as a top issue of concern.
So this is a very real issue for all Americans regardless of whether they’re Democrats, Independents, or Republicans. It is very important to all of them because they are addressing these issues on a day-to-day basis and it is our hope that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will help us get this bill passed in the House and the Senate…
We will continue to fight this fight because we realize that we are trying not only to help people but we’re trying to save lives and that’s what it’s all about.
It is – you cannot with a straight face say that “I believe in free trade and isn’t it wonderful that we’re bringing in lettuce and tomatoes from small farms in Mexico? What a great advent, what a great development!” but somehow you cannot bring brand name drugs from multibillion companies from Canada across the border.
Nobody with a straight face can make that case. So that is one area that I think we’re going to have some bipartisan support.
As the Congressman was mentioning, there are cases now where the price of medicine has gone up by 1,000% for no reason that anybody can understand other than greed.
So to answer your question…this is the health care [issue] perhaps on people’s minds.
…A lot of medicine – a lot of the therapy in medicine – how we get better deals with medicine. You can get the best diagnoses in the world – the best doctor in the world – it doesn’t matter if what he or she prescribes cannot be filled and cannot be utilized.
So this is an issue that millions of people are deeply concerned about.
And if like Sen. Sanders said if somebody gets a prescription, gets the care then gets the prescription and then can’t afford it that’s a real problem.
But the other piece that I think gnaws at me is that it seems to be a thing of greed here, and that bothers me a lot, particularly when people are dying and suffering needlessly.
And so this is a cause which I think is so important and I think that’s why it ranks number one with the American people with regards to health care issues because again they can get the treatment a lot of times but they can’t get the cure. That’s a problem.
