
I think at the end of the day, what super delegates are going to have to consider – and by the way, I hope – it’s a steep hill to climb – I hope that we will win the pledged delegates. But at the end of the day, the responsibility that super delegates have is to decide what is best for this country and what is best for the Democratic Party.
And if those super delegates conclude that Bernie Sanders is the best candidate, the strongest candidate to defeat Trump and anybody else, yes, then I would very much welcome their support.
Now, I can’t tell you – I cannot tell you and I won’t tell you – that if the independents – 3 million of them were allowed to vote – and by the way, in most polls, in most contests, we do far, far better than Clinton does in the independent vote. Sometimes we get two out of three votes.
I cannot tell you that if independents were allowed to vote in New York state, we would have won. I don’t know. No question though, we would have done much, much better.
So we walked into – I mean, not only are we taking on. I don’t mean to cry here – we know what we were getting into, we know what the rules are, we accept them, we’re doing the best that we can. But please appreciate in state after state where independents cannot vote, we are at a real disadvantage and it’s a little bit absurd because independents do vote in a general election.
So if Democrats want the strongest candidate out there to take on a Republican, I think it’s pretty dumb to be excluding independents and I hope we’ll fight – whether I win or not – to change those rules.
But to answer those questions, you know, frankly, you know in hindsight it is always – you could always think about things that you should have done better and some days I will tell you all those things. And that’s true for any campaign. I’m sure if you talk to Clinton’s campaign, they’ll tell you all of the things they could have done better.
But you know, I am enormously proud of the campaign that we have run up to this point and I hope it gets better.
Any of you here would have bet that on May 1st Bernie Sanders would have won 17 primaries and caucuses? If you had the odds that I think you would have a year ago, you wouldn’t be sitting here. You’ll be off very wealthy individuals. So we’re proud of the campaign that we ran.

And I would hope – I’m not making any predictions, nothing guaranteed here – but I think some of those super delegates who announced for Clinton even before I got into the race, will say, “You know what? Bernie has a better chance of defeating Trump, and that is what is most important.”
No, the Republican Party and Trump have the resources to do all the opposition research they want on Secretary Clinton. They don’t need Bernie Sanders’s critiques of the Secretary.
And as I have said before, when you look at a Donald Trump who wants to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the top 0.2%. A man who despite all of the scientific evidence thinks that climate change is a hoax. A man who thinks we should not raise the starvation wage – minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. I think in the general election no matter who runs against him, this man will not be a strong candidate.
And I know and you should know what Trump is trying to do – he’s trying to appeal – [inaudible]
…No, I think that’s nonsense, and I’m glad to see that he manages to get through to some media making that point.
What is a campaign about? A campaign is supposed to be about not just political gossip. It’s actually supposed to be about differentiating the points of view that candidates have.
Secretary Clinton and I have different points of view on a number of issues and I have tried my hardest to run an issue-oriented campaign, explaining to the American people the differences that we have.
Now, I may be old fashioned, but that’s kind of what I think democracy is supposed to be about.
And frankly, as you’ve heard me say a million times, I do wish media pay more attention to why the middle class in this country is disappearing, the morality of the grotesque level of income and wealth inequality, every now and then maybe mention climate change – the great environmental crisis our planet face. Every once in a while. I don’t want too much out of this.
But Trump is trying in a number of ways, I think, to tap into some of my support. If I lose the nomination, he will not get that support. If lose the nomination and we’re here to do everything that we can to win it, I will fight as hard as I can to make certain that Donald Trump does not become president of the United States…
And we have got to begin the conversation with many of the super delegates who signed on with Secretary Clinton very early on.
And if, I think, the objective evidence – and we will see – you know, we still have time to go. We’ve got to go through June 14th – but I think that if the evidence is there that we are by far the stronger candidate, I’m confident that we will win some of those folks over.

But it is not just national polls.
Everybody know that in a general election in the United States, you win the electoral vote taking place in 50 states in this country.
And if you look at virtually every battleground state, in Arizona, in Michigan, in Missouri, in New Hampshire, in North Carolina, and in many other states which are up for grabs may be won by the Democratic candidate, may be won by the Republican candidate, in every one of those states, we defeat Trump by larger margins than she does.
Further, equally important, what recent elections tell us is that when the voter turnout is high, when people come out in large numbers, Democrats and progressive win. People are excited. They come out. Young people come out. Working class people come out. People who don’t always vote come out – Democrats win.
On the other hand, Republicans win elections when the voter turnout is low and that is exactly what we saw in the last national election in 2014 when 63% of the American people didn’t vote.
There is little doubt in my mind that the energy and the excitement in this campaign is with the work we have done, and I believe that energy and that excitement among working class people, among middle class people, among young people will translate to a very large voter turnout in November, which not only will mean victory for the White House, it will mean victory for Senate races, U.S. House races, and governors’ races throughout this country.
This is an issue that I hope the super delegates will pay keen attention to.
I understand that some of them prefer Secretary Clinton – fair enough – some people prefer me – fair enough.
But at the end of the day, what every person in Philadelphia who goes to that convention understands that we must have the strongest candidate to defeat Trump or another Republican. And I think the objective evidence is that I am that candidate.
Thanks very much.
Let me start – we’ll take a few questions. We’re off to Indiana in a few minutes…
First, those super delegates in states where either candidate, Secretary Clinton or myself, has won a landslide victory, those super delegates ought to seriously reflect on whether they should cast their super delegate vote in line with the wishes of the people of their states.
But I think you’re going to have – again, we don’t know what’s going to happen in Indiana on Tuesday. We don’t know what’s going to happen to nine of the states. We don’t know what’s going to happen before with elections.
But let me put this into your mind. What happens if we do really, really well in the remaining 10 states? And what happens if the polls continue to show that Bernie Sanders is the strongest candidate against Donald Trump?
Do I believe that there will be some super delegates – how many? Nobody can tell you – that there will be some super delegates who say, “You know, I came onto the Clinton campaign even before Sanders got in. But I want to re-think this.” Because what is most important is beating Donald Trump.
If – and that’s an if, I admit – but if that scenario plays out, yeah, I do think you’re going to have a lot of super delegates who say “You know what’s most important? It is most important that we defeat Donald Trump in November.”
Hillary Clinton wins Mississippi by whatever she won it by – some huge number – yeah, super delegates there should vote for her. That’s one issue.

And let me just give you an example of what I mean by that.
In the state of Washington, we won that caucus with almost 73% of the vote there. In anybody’s definition, that is a massive landslide. But at this point, Secretary Clinton has 10 super delegates from the state of Washington; we have zero. I would ask the super delegates from the state of Washington to respect the wishes of the people in their state and the votes they have cast.
To Minnesota, we won the caucus there with 61% of the vote. Hillary Clinton has 11 super delegates. We have 3.
In Colorado, we won that state with 59% of the vote. Pretty strong margin. Secretary Clinton has 10 super delegates; we have zero.
In New Hampshire, we won that state with more than 60% of the vote. Secretary Clinton has 6 super delegates; we have zero.
And that pattern continues in other states where we have won landslide victories.
I would hope very much that the super delegates from those states where we have won with big margins or in fact where Secretary Clinton has won with big margins to respect the wishes of the people of those states and vote in line with how the people of their state voted.
Secondly and extremely importantly, Secretary Clinton and I obviously have many differences of opinion on some of the most important issues facing our country.
We disagree on trade policy, on breaking up Wall Street banks. We disagree on the minimum wage. I want to raise it to $15 an hour. She wants to raise it to $12 an hour. We disagree on whether or not we should impose a tax on carbon to deal with the crisis on climate change. I believe we should. We disagree about the extent to which the wealthy and profitable multinational corporations should be asked to pay their fair share of taxes. We disagree on fracking. I believe we have got to end fracking in this country.
We disagree on a number of other issues.
But where Secretary Clinton and I strongly agree and where every delegate to the Democratic Convention strongly agrees is that it would be a disaster for this country if Donald Trump or some other right wing Republican want to become president of the United States.
Therefore, in my view, it is incumbent upon every super delegate to take a hard and objective look at which candidate stands the better chance of defeating Donald Trump and other Republican candidates.
And in that regard, I think the evidence is extremely clear that I would be the stronger candidate to defeat Trump or any other Republican. And this is not just on the subjective opinion of Bernie Sanders. I’m not here to just tell you this is what I think, this is what I believe.
I think this is really what the objective evidence tells us. And this is based on every national and state poll done in the last several months.
Now, I know that polls go up and down. But when you have poll after poll after poll nationally saying that Sanders can defeat Trump by a – in some cases – a much greater margin than Clinton can, I think it’s worth paying attention to that.
In a Morning Consult survey, we beat Trump by 16 points. She beats him by 7. These are very recent polls.
In an IBD poll, we beat Trump by 12. She beats him by 7.
USA Today poll, we beat Trump by 15. She beats him by 11.
A George Washington University poll, we beat him by 10, she beat him by 3.
Fox News has us beating Trump by 14. She beats him by 7.

Bernie Sanders:
People know – whether you’re conservative or progressive – that a corrupt campaign finance system with super PACs undermining American democracy.
They understand there is something fundamentally wrong when the average American is working longer hours for lower wages and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%.
They understand that we have a broken criminal justice system with more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
They understand that we have got to deal with the planetary crisis of climate change and among other things impose a tax on carbon.
They understand that at a time we have a major crisis – growing crisis – with regard to clean water, we need to end fracking.
They understand that in a competitive global economy, we need to make public colleges and universities tuition-free and they understand that when you have a grotesque level of income and wealth inequality, yes, large profitable corporations and the top 1% are going to have to pay more in taxes.
Let me now just say a few words about delegate math and our path toward victory.
As all of you know, there are a total of 4,766 Democratic delegates. 4,047 are pledged – i.e. they come out as a result of the contest in the various states – 719 are super delegates.
A Democratic candidate needs 2,383 votes in order to win the Democratic nomination.
Let me be very clear. It is virtually impossible for Secretary Clinton to reach the majority of convention delegates by June 14. That is the last day that a primary will be held. With pledged delegates alone.
In other words, once more, it is virtually impossible for Secretary Clinton to reach the majority of convention delegates by June 14 with pledged delegates alone.
She will need super delegates to take her over the top at the convention in Philadelphia.
In other words, the convention will be a contested contest.
Currently, Secretary Clinton has 1,645 pledged delegates. 55% of the total.
We have 1,318 pledged delegates. 45% of the total.
There are 10 states remaining where we’re going to be vigorously competing. Plus, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. We believe that we are in a very strong position to win many of these remaining contests and we have an excellent chance to win in California – the state with far and away the most delegates.
For us to win the majority of pledged delegates, we need to win 710 out of the remaining 1,083. That is 65% of the remaining pledged delegates.
That is admittedly – and I do not deny it for a second – a tough road to climb but it is not an impossible road to climb.
And we intend to fight for every vote in front of us and for every delegate remaining.
In terms of super delegates, I would just like to say the following:
Obviously, we are taking on virtually the entire Democratic establishment. And it’s amazing to me and I just have to thank our volunteers that we go into state after state – you’ve got the senators and you’ve got the governors and you’ve got the mayors – all of them know how to get out the vote. And yet in 17 primaries and caucuses, despite all of that political establishment support, we have won.
Now, of the 719 super delegates, many of those delegates committed themselves to Secretary Clinton even before we got into this campaign. In other words, way back when she was the anointed candidate, and they said we’re with Hillary Clinton. While she has 520 super delegates, we have all of 39 super delegates.
In other words, while we have won 45% of the pledged delegates in real campaigns where the people have spoken, we’ve won 45% – we have won only 7% of the super delegates.
Two points regarding that.

We announced the beginning of our campaign a year ago. And before I talk about the delegate math and our path toward victory, I just want to say a few words about how far we have come in the last year.
And I just want to thank the millions and millions of people who have supported us in every way.
When we started this campaign, as most of you know, we were considered to be a fringe candidacy.
We started with no campaign organization. We started with no money. We started with very little name recognition outside of my own state of Vermont.
In national polls, we were trailing Secretary Clinton by at least 60 points and in some cases a little bit more.
In this campaign, we have taken on the entire Democratic establishment. In state after state we have taken on the senators, the members of the Congress, the governors, the mayors. We have taken them all on.
And in the Clinton organization, obviously, we are taking on the most powerful political organization in this country – an organization that has won two presidential elections with Bill Clinton and ran a very strong campaign with Hillary Clinton in 2008.
That is what we were up against. That was then. Today is today.
As of today, we have now won 17 primaries and caucuses in every part of the country. And by the way, we hope to make Indiana our 18th victory on Tuesday. And we have received some 9 million votes.
In recent national polls, we’re not behind Secretary Clinton by 60 points any more. In the last few weeks actually there have been a couple of polls that have us in the lead. Other polls have us single digits behind.
In terms of fundraising, we have received more individual campaign contributions – 7.4 million – than any candidate in presidential history at this point in a campaign.
We do not have a super PAC. We do not get our money from Wall Street or the drug companies or powerful corporations.
Our money is coming from the middle class or the working class of this country, averaging $27 a campaign contribution.
And I’m very proud of the fact that we have just raised in the last month – we had a phenomenally good month – we’ve raised over $25 million despite the fact that 80% of the primary and caucuses are behind us.
What the political revolution has shown is that we can run a strong, winning campaign without a super PAC and without being dependent on big money interest.
As of today – and I don’t know if anyone else has done it, maybe they have, maybe they haven’t, I don’t know that – but we have brought out more than 1.1 million people to our rallies from Maine to California and that number will go up very significantly because we intend to have a number of major rallies in the state of California.
And very importantly, we have won in state after state a strong majority of the votes of younger people, voters under 45 years of age.
In other words, the ideas that we are fighting for are the future of the Democratic Party and in fact the future of this country.
And again, I’m not just talking about people 23 years of age and younger where we’re doing phenomenally well and very proud of that. We’re talking about people 45 years of age or younger.
And the reason for that I believe is that the issues that we are talking about are the issues that are on the minds of the American people.
