
…Thank you, Greenville! Let me thank Garrett McDaniel for his very kind words.
Let me thank Ben Jealous. Ben, as you know, is the former head of the NAACP, one of the great civil rights leaders in our country today.
Let me thank Danny Glover. You know, you all know Danny Glover is one of America’s great actors and he is that. But unlike many other people who have achieved celebrity status, what Danny has done is use that celebrity status in the fight for racial and economic justice in our country and I thank him for all that he’s done.
On Saturday, South Carolina has the opportunity to make American history and I hope you will.
You know, we go around once, we may as well make history as we go around. We may as well do something that people will remember decades from today.
This campaign has taken on the economic establishment, all of the big money interests, and let me tell you Wall Street is getting nervous. And let me also tell you they should be getting nervous. We have taken on the political establishment. We have taken on the media establishment, and we are gaining momentum everyday.
We are gaining momentum because the American people are tired of the same old, same old establishment politics and establishment economics.
And what the American people are demanding is a government which represents all of us, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
This campaign is gaining momentum because we are listening to the American people and we are listening in ways that other campaigns don’t.
We are listening to the millions of workers in this country who are making $9 or $10 an hour and they can’t make it on $9 or $10 an hour.

We are listening to the elderly women in South Carolina and in Vermont who are trying to get by on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security, and you know what? They can’t get by on $11,000 or $12,000 a year Social Security.
And we are listening to the young people across this country, many of whom are here tonight, and many of whom are being crushed by $30,000 or $50,000 or $100,000 in student debt. And they are asking us why do they have to be punished for decades paying off that debt for the crime of wanting to get an education.
We are listening to women who are tired of earning 79 cents on the dollar compared to men and then find it impossible to come up with affordable quality child care for their children.
And as Ben and Danny Glover just mentioned, we are listening to the African-American community who understand that we have a criminal justice system which is broken and today has more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
You’re right. You’re right. We have 2.2 million people in jail. We spend $80 billion a year locking up fellow Americans. That is something we must be ashamed of and we will change.
When this campaign began about 9.5 months ago, we were regarded by the media as a fringe campaign.
Now what the media said is “Bernie, you comb your hair really nice. You got a real GQ look.”
And I want to make public now. This is actually a new sports jacket. I just bought it the other day.
But despite all of those attributes, what the pundits said is, “You’re not going to go very far for one reason and that is that in this day and age to run for the president of the United States, you need to raise hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars.”
And what the pundits said is that, “The only way that you can raise that kind of money is to establish a Super PAC and beg millionaires -“ This is a smart audience. I like these guys. All right.
As you know, what a Super PAC is about is millionaires and billionaires and Wall Street pouring huge amounts of money into the political process. Well, we decided from Day 1 that we were not going to have a Super PAC because we don’t represent billionaires and millionaires.

But it’s easy to be very noble and courageous; it’s another thing to raise the money that you need.
So what we did is we basically reached out to the middle class and working families of this country and we said, “If you want a campaign which is going to fight for real change in this country, help us out a little bit. We know you’re hurting. Help us out – $20, $50.”
And you know what happened? One of the most amazing things that has happened in a very long time in American politics and that is over the last nine months, what we have seen is that our campaign has received four million individual campaign contributions. That is more campaign contributions than any campaign in the history of America at this point in a campaign.
And you all know what the average contribution has been? I’ll tell you these guys are really smart. $27!
To paraphrase Abraham Lincoln, this is a campaign of the people, by the people, and for the people.
When we began this campaign, we were 50 points down in Iowa, we were 30 points down in New Hampshire, and just about five weeks ago, we were 25 points down in Nevada. A lot has changed in the last few months.
This is a campaign that has the momentum, and we have the momentum not only in the Democratic primary process. If you look at national polls and you want a candidate who is going to defeat Donald Trump, you’re looking at that candidate. And there would be nothing that would give me greater pleasure than in fact beating Donald Trump and beating him badly.
Now everybody here understand that throughout our country’s history real change only takes place from the bottom on up, never from the top on down. The people who make the changes in the deepest sense are not presidents, are not Supreme Court justices; they are you. They are you. Because what history has always been about is people finding themselves in a moment in history in which they look around them and they say, “The status quo is not good enough. We need real change. We are at that moment in American history today.”

125 years ago, when workers had no rights, they were forced to work outrageous hours, they could be fired for any reason, working people stood up. They said, “You know what? We’re not animals. We’re not chattel. We’re going form a union and we’re going to bargain collectively. We’re going to stand up for our rights.” And that’s the origin of the union movement in this country.
And 150 or 200 years ago, whenever, African-Americans and their white allies said, “Racism and sexism and bigotry is not what this country is supposed to be about.” And against all odds, they stood up and they fought back. They said that that is not what America is supposed to be about.
And way back when women said, “You know what? We are tired of being second class citizens.” Sometimes we forget that 100 years ago to date women didn’t have the right to vote. Women didn’t have property rights. Women couldn’t go to medical school. Women couldn’t go to law school. Women couldn’t do what they wanted to do. But women and their male allies stood up and said, “Sorry, that’s not what America is about. We’re going to fight for change.”
And not so many years ago, 10 years ago, if we were in this room, and somebody stood up and said, “You know, I think in America our gay brothers and sisters will have the right to be married in 50 states in America”, the person next to him would have said, “What are you smoking?” Which raises another issue.
So the important point to be made is that the only change takes place is when millions of people stand up and say, “Enough is enough. America can be much better than where we are today.”
And the reason that our campaign is gaining such momentum is frankly we are treating the American people as intelligent human beings who are prepared to hear some harsh truths about our country. Now, I can give you a wonderful speech, make it all pleasant, happy, and funny, but that’s not the world that we are living in.
What I have always believed is that if you do not face up to the difficult problems, if you try to sweep them under the rug, you’re going to go nowhere in a hurry.
So what this campaign is talking about is the unpleasant reality that we live today with a corrupt campaign finance system, which is undermining American democracy.
What democracy is about is you have an idea, I have an idea, and we disagree and we argue over it. But at the end of the day, whether you’re rich or you’re poor, you get one vote and I get one vote. Democracy is not about billionaires buying elections.

And what connects a corrupt campaign finance system is the fact that we are living in a rigged economy. And what that means, as all of you know, is the average American is working longer and longer hours for lower wages while almost all new wealth and income goes to the top 1%. That’s a rigged economy.
And we are also living under a broken criminal justice system. And what that means is that if some kid in South Carolina or Vermont gets picked up today for possessing marijuana, that kid will receive a police record and that record will be carried with that person for the rest of his life.
But if you are an executive on Wall Street whose illegal behavior forced this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, you do not get a police record; you get an increase in your salary.
What this campaign is about is saying that it is wrong, it is un-America, it is unsustainable when the top 0.1% now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%, that it is wrong that the 20 wealthiest people in this country now own more wealth than the bottom half of America – 150 million people.
Now when we talk about a rigged economy, let me give you just one example of what that means. Turns out that the wealthiest family in America today is the Walton family who owns Walmart. Now, I know that in South Carolina and many parts of the country, you hear a whole lot about welfare abuse, about people ripping off the welfare system. Right? Well, let me inform you about who the major recipient of welfare in America happens to be the Walton family, the wealthiest family in America.
Now why is that? And the reason is that Walmart, owned by Walton family, pays wages that are so low that many of their employees are forced to go on Medicaid, food stamps, and subsidized housing. And do you know who pays for the food stamps, the subsidized housing, and the Medicaid? You do. So on behalf of the Walton family, the wealthiest family in America, I want to thank all of you for helping them out. They are down to their last $60 billion and they very much appreciate your helping them out.
But in all seriousness, I say to the Walton family and all those corporations that are paying working workers subsistence wages, “Get off of welfare. Pay your workers a living wage.”

And when we talk about wages, let’s lay it out on the table and the fact is that the federal minimum wage, which also exists in many, many states of $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage. You can do the arithmetic as well as I can. You can multiply $8, $9, $10 an hour, 40 hours, 50 weeks a year, and you end up with a sum that nobody can live on.
And that is why together that is why we are going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour – over the next few years.
And when we talk about inequitable and unfair wages, I hope every man in this room will stand with the women and demand pay equity for women workers.
Now every month, the federal government comes out with a report on unemployment and what you see in the front pages tells you officially unemployment in America is 5%. That’s right.
The truth is that real unemployment, including those who have given up looking for work or who are working part-time when they want to work full-time is close to 10%.
And youth unemployment for kids who graduated high school is off the charts. For white kids, 33%, Latino kids 36%, African-American kids 51%.
Now if anybody thinks there is not a connection between high rates of youth unemployment and the fact that we have more people in jail than in any other country, you would be mistaken. You would be mistaken.
So here is a radical idea. You ready for a radical idea?
As a nation, we are going to invest in jobs and education, not jails or incarceration.
What this campaign is about is thinking big, thinking outside of the box. And one way we have got to think outside of the box is to end this disgrace of mass incarceration in America.
When we talk about what’s going on in this country, I hope all of you are listening to my Republican colleagues, and the good news is I guess they have departed from South Carolina.
But you have listened to them and if you hear them talking about family values – that’s right – I want everybody to be clear about what they mean because this is not laughing stuff. What they mean is that every woman in this arena, every woman in this state, every woman in this country should not have the right to control her own body; I disagree.
What they mean is that the federal government should de-fund Planned Parenthood; I believe we should expand Planned Parenthood.
What they believe in family values is that our gay brothers and sisters should not have the right to get married; I disagree.
Let me tell you about what real family value means.

Today in South Carolina, today in Vermont, women are having beautiful babies. Big day for the parents; pretty big day for the baby.
But here is the point – here is the point – if that woman in South Carolina is working class or low-income, if that woman in Vermont is low-income or working class, what happens a week or two after she has that baby? That’s right. What happens is she is forced to be separated from that beautiful baby and go back to work to earn enough income to take care of her family. That’s right. That is not a family value. That is the opposite of a family value.
Now, it turns out that all over the world, not only in every industrialized nation but in many poor countries, when women have a baby, they are guaranteed paid family and medical leave.
Now, if virtually every other country on Earth can do it, so can we. We’re going to pass legislation providing three months paid family and medical leave.
When we talk about the economy and when we talk about high unemployment, it is clear to me that we need a massive federal jobs program to put Americans back to work.
We should be hiring teachers, not firing teachers.
I was in Detroit, Michigan last week and I talked to some people from Flint, Michigan, and what I heard from those people was probably the most depressing and distressing stories that I’ve heard in my political life, and I won’t even go into all of the details about what is happening in that community because it is so horrific, so unbelievable that it could be happening in America in the year 2016, it is just impossible to believe.
But the point that I want to make is that our infrastructure, our water systems, not just in Flint but all over this country – wastewater plants, roads, bridges, levies, dams, rail, airports – in many parts of this country, that infrastructure is collapsing.
And that is why I believe we should invest heavily in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, creating millions of jobs.
When we talk about what goes on in America, it is important to talk about the elephant in the room that many people choose not to talk about and that is the greed, the recklessness, and the illegal behavior on Wall Street.
When the U.S. Congress against my vote bailed out Wall Street, they did so because of the fear that the big banks were too big to fail.
It turns out that today, three out of the four largest banks are bigger now than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail. Turns out that the six largest banks of America have assets equivalent to 56% of the GDP in America, they issue two thirds of the credit cards, one third of the mortgages.
In my view, when you have a handful of financial entities so big, so powerful, so politically connected, what we must do is break them up.

Six years ago, the Supreme Court rendered one of the worst decisions in the history of the United States of America, and what they said to the billionaires and Wall Street and corporate America, “You already own much of the economy. Now we’re going to give you the opportunity to buy the United States government” and that is precisely what they are trying to do right now.
One family, the Koch brothers, and a few of their billionaire friends – you are familiar with the Koch brothers. They will be spending in this campaign cycle $900 million. So here’s the story: You get one vote. They get one vote. But on top of that, they get $900 to spend. That is not the democracy; that is oligarchy, and we are going to stop that.
Everybody in America understands that for us to be successful as a nation, as an economy, we need the best educated workforce in the world.
And 30 or 40 years ago, we had the best educated workforce in the world. Not today.
Today, we have hundreds of thousands of bright young people did well in high school, wanting to go to college, unable to do so for one reason – their families lack the money.
That is unfair to those young people. It is unfair to the future of our country, and that is why I believe that in the year 2016 when we talk about public education, we’ve got to be talking about making public colleges and universities tuition-free.
I’m told that this is a radical idea. I don’t believe it. Talk to the people in Germany. Talk to the people in Scandinavia. Talk to your grandparents who in this country 50 years ago could go to major universities virtually tuition free.
And then the other part of that equation that we have to deal with is the incredibly oppressive burden of student debt that is resting on the shoulders of millions of Americans.
Anybody here dealing with student debt? I rest my case. What kind of debt are we talking about?
$50,000? How much? $85,000? $200,000? This is like a Vermont auction except – the young woman here, raise your hand. All right, she is $200,000 in debt? Her brother is $200,000 in debt.
Now, when you engage in this campaign, it’s important to take a deep breath and understand that in many instances the status quo does not make sense. People who want nothing more in life than to get as good an education as they can should not end up $200,000 in debt.

I talked to a guy – and I raise this issue in every speech that I give – I talked to a guy in Nevada a few years ago, 55 years of age. He’s been paying off his student debt for 25 years. He is more in debt today than he was when he took the loan out. And he is worried that when he gets Social Security they are going to garnish his Social Security to pay his student loans. This is crazy. This is crazy stuff.
What we want is a nation which encourages people to get all the education they need, not punishes people.
That is why we have introduced legislation that allows people with student debt to refinance their loans at the lowest interest rates they can find.
Now, I have been criticized like about 12 times a day for being too ambitious. “Bernie, these are great ideas but in America we just can’t afford it. We can’t do what Germany does or Scandinavia. We just can’t allow our young people to go to public colleges and universities tuition free. We can’t lower student debt. It is just impossible. It is too expensive.”
And then people say, “Well, Bernie, how are you going to pay for it?” And I will tell you how we’re going to pay for it. We pay for it through a tax on Wall Street speculation.
…Please remember this that when Wall Street’s greed and illegal behavior nearly destroyed our economy, they went to Congress for a bailout, which they got. Now, it is Wall Street’s turn to help the middle class of this country.
Now, I know that here in South Carolina, you have a state run by pretty conservative people, and I know that many conservatives refuse to accept science with regard to climate change.
I am member of the Senate Committee on the Environment and the Senate Committee on Energy, and I have talked to scientists all over this country and all over the world. So let me tell you in South Carolina regardless of what your leaders may tell you: Climate change is real. Climate change is caused by human activity. And climate change is already doing devastating harm in this country and around the world. That is the fact.
And let me tell you something else in terms of what scientists tell us. They say if we do not get our act together in a very short window of opportunity, this planet by the end of this century is going to be 5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit warmer – more droughts, more floods, more extreme weather disturbances, more acidification of the ocean, more rising sea levels, more international conflict as people fight over limited natural resources.
And let me tell you this as well. The reason that Republicans refuse to recognize the scientists is not because they’re dumb, not because they can’t read science. The reason has everything to do with a corrupt campaign finance system.

If a Republican candidate for president came up here and told you what I just told you that climate change is real, caused by human activity, on that day that candidate would lose his funding from the fossil fuel industry, the Koch brothers, the coal companies and all of that.
And I say to my Republican colleagues, worry less about your campaign funds, worry more about your grandchildren and your great grandchildren.
In America, we have, as you all know, pass the Affordable Care Act, which has done a lot of good things for our people, and I’m on the committee that help write that.
The Affordable Care Act has eliminated this private insurance company obscenity of pre-existing conditions. We have done away with discrimination against women who were forced to pay higher premiums than men. We have added some 17 million plus people to the ranks of the insured.
And let me say if I may, not that I want to be involved in local politics here, it is incomprehensible to me that when we passed in Congress the Affordable Care Act to expand Medicaid in every state of this country that the governor of South Carolina [Nikki Haley] rejected that proposal. We do not know – nobody will ever know – how many people will die or get much sicker than they should have because they did not have the Medicaid that the Congress provided for them. And I would hope – I would hope – that the Republican leadership here would get beyond right wing political ideology and serve the needs of the people of this state.
Now, my view is that while the Affordable Care Act has done some very good things, we have got to do better.
So let me stand before you and tell you what I believe and that is I believe that health care is a right of all people, not a privilege.
I believe that it’s wrong that we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, that 29 million Americans have no health insurance and many of you are under-insured with high deductibles and co-payments. And that is why I believe in a Medicare for all single payer program.
When we talk about this country and what the issues are that we’ve got to address, let us be clear and that is that no American – black, Latino, or white – should be fearful of walking down the street and getting shot by a police officer.
Now, I have served as the mayor of the largest city in Vermont and I’ve worked very hard with police officers. I believe the vast majority of police officers are honest and hardworking and have to do a very, very difficult job. But when a police officer breaks the law, like any other public official, that officer must be held accountable.
I believe that we must de-militarize local police departments so they don’t look like occupying armies. I believe we need to make police departments look like the communities they serve.

In my state of Vermont and in many parts of this country, we have a very – dare I say – huge problem with substance abuse and overdoses regarding heroin. In my view, we have got to look at substance abuse and addiction as a health issue, not a criminal issue.
In the last 30 years in this country, millions of Americans have received criminal records as a result of the possession of marijuana.
And what that means is if you have a criminal record and you go in applying for a job, you know what? You may not get that job.
So what I believe is that when we have a federal Controlled Substance Act, which lists marijuana in a Schedule I level right alongside of heroin, that is dumb. So I believe that we should take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act, not make it a federal crime.
And by the way, where this becomes a racial issue is that it turns out that the black community and the white community smoke marijuana at about the same rates but blacks are four times more likely to be arrested than whites.
My friends, what this campaign is about is asking all of you to imagine what this country can be. In my view, we do not need to be a country which has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country at the same time we are seeing a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires.
We do not have to be a country where young people cannot afford to get a higher education while millions of others are being crushed by outrageous student debt.
We do not have to be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee paid family and medical leave or provide health care to all people as a right.
We do not have to be a country in which millions of our brothers and sisters work for $9, $10, $11 an hour and are going nowhere in a hurry.
But the only way we change America, it’s not just electing a president. Obviously I’m here to ask for your support. It is much more than that. It is to create a political revolution.
And what that revolution means is that you understand that you and you and you have the power to determine the future of America. That’s what people fought and died for, and that’s where we are today.
And if millions of Americans stand up and say, “You know what? In this great country we can be so much more. We don’t have to have a political system owned by billionaires. We don’t have to have a rigged economy. We don’t have to have a broken criminal justice system”, we – if we stand together – if we do not allow the Donald Trumps of the world to divide us up by race and where we were born, if we stand together and demand that the United States government represents all of us, not just the 1%, there is nothing we cannot accomplish!
Thank you all very much!
