
Let me be very brief.
First off, I applaud the President, Secretary Kerry for their efforts in a very crazy and dangerous world to create an agreement with Iran which prevents Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.
This is a huge breakthrough.
Obviously, the devil is in the details. All of us are going to study those details but this is clearly a major step forward.
Let me also welcome Secretary Clinton back to the United States Senate where she served for eight years.
I very much look forward in this campaign to a serious debate about the very serious crises facing our country.
I don’t like negative campaigns. I’ve never run a negative ad in my life. I believe the American people are entitled to serious discussion about serious issues.
Secretary Clinton and I disagree on a number of issues. There are issues where we come from the same place.
Some of the areas where we disagree are on trade.
I happen to believe that the trade agreements that have been passed here over the last three decades – NAFTA, CAPTA, the Chinese trade agreement, TPP – have been disastrous for American workers and have led to the loss of millions of jobs.
Secretary Clinton, I believe, has a different view on that issue.
I strongly oppose the war in Iraq, and if you go to the remarks that I made when I was a member of the House, sadly, tragically much of what I predicted in fact took place.
I voted against the so-called USA PATRIOT Act because I feared very much that while we have to be vigorous in protecting this country against terrorism, we could do it without undermining the constitutional rights or the privacy rights of the American people.
I happen to agree very strongly with Pope Francis that climate change is the great planetary crisis – environmental crisis – that we face.
I have helped lead the opposition against the Keystone Pipeline. I don’t believe we should be excavating or transporting some of the dirtiest fuel on this planet.
I think Secretary Clinton has not been clear on her views on that issue.
When I was a member of the House, I led, helped lead the effort in opposition to the de-regulation of Wall Street. I happen to believe that Wall Street has far too much power, much too much concentration of ownership and wealth there. I believe that we should break up the major financial institutions and certain go forward with restoring Glass-Steagall financial regulations.
To the best of my knowledge, those are ideas that Secretary Clinton does not agree with.
I have been very specific in saying that when we have millions of people in this country who are working for disastrously low wages, that the $7.25 an hour minimum wage here is a starvation wage. We need to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
We need to invest $1 trillion in rebuilding our infrastructure, creating up to 13 million jobs.
Those are very specific ideas that I have. I think the Secretary has not been quite so clear on those issues.
Lastly, I believe that if we’re going to rebuild the American middle class we need to make public colleges and universities tuitions free and pay for it through a transaction tax on Wall Street speculators. The Secretary’s position I think is unclear on that.
And I would specifically talk about climate change. I do not believe that my Republican friends do not understand the science. I think they are afraid to come out and take the Koch brothers, take on Exxon Mobil and say “You know what? Maybe climate change is real. Maybe it’s a real threat to this planet. Maybe we have to do something.” And if they say that, the next day they would be challenged in primaries with huge amounts of money coming from the big energy companies and from the Koch brothers.
It is not necessary I think for people to dislike each other or to attack each other just because they’re running for office.
