
…Let me start off by acknowledging what I think all of you already know and that is the views that many here at Liberty University have and I on a number of important issues are very, very different.
I believe in women’s rights and the right of a woman to control her own body.
I believe in gay rights and gay marriage.
Those are my views and it is no secret.
But I came here today because I believe from the bottom of my heart that it is vitally important for those of us who hold different views to be able to engage in a civil discourse.
Too often in our country – and I think both sides, their responsibility for us – there is too much shouting at each other, there is too much making fun of each other.
I was in Greensboro, North Carolina just last night. There were 9,000 people out. Mostly they agree with me. And tonight, we’re going to be in Manassas and thousands out and they agree with me. That’s not hard to do and that’s what politicians by and large do. We go out and we talk to people who agree with us.
But it is harder but not less important for us to try and communicate with those who do not agree with us on every issue.
And it is important to see where if possible – and I do believe it’s possible – we can find common grounds.
Now, Liberty University is a religious school, obviously. And all of you are proud of that.
You are a school which as all of us in our own way tries to understand the meaning of morality, what does it mean to live a moral life, and you try to understand in this very complicated modern world that we live in what the words of the Bible mean in today’s society.

You are a school which tries to teach its students how to behave with decency and with honesty and how you can best relate to your fellow human beings, and I applaud you for trying to achieve those goals.
Let me take a moment or a few moments to tell you what motivates me in the work that I do as a public servant, as a Senator from the state of Vermont.
And let me tell you that it goes without saying I am far, far from being a perfect human but I am motivated by a vision which exists in all of the great religions – in Christianity, in Judaism, in Islam, in Buddhism and other religions – and that vision is so beautifully and clearly stated in Matthew 7:12.
And it states “So in everything do to others what you would have them do to you for this sums up the law and the Prophets.”
That is the golden rule. Do onto others what you would have them do to you. That is the golden rule and it is not very complicated.
Let me be frank. As I said a moment ago, I understand that the issues of abortion and gay marriage are issues you feel very strongly about. We disagree on those issues. I get that.
But let me respectfully suggest that there are other issues out there that are of enormous consequence to our country and in fact to the entire world that maybe – just maybe – we do not disagree on and maybe – just maybe – we can try to work together to resolve them.
Amos 5:24: “But let justice roll on like a river, righteousness like a never failing stream.”
Justice treating the others the way we want to be treated. Treating all people, no matter their race, their color, their stature in life with respect and with dignity.
Now, here is my point. Some of you may agree with me and some of you may not.
But in my view, it would be hard for anyone in this world today to make the case that the United States of America – a great country, a country which all of us love – it would be hard to make the case that we are a just society or anything resembling a just society today.
In the United States of America today, there is massive injustice in terms of income and wealth inequality. Injustice is rampant.
We live – and I hope all of you know this – in the wealthiest country in the history of the world. But most Americans don’t know that because almost all of that wealth and income is going to the top 1%. Now, that’s the truth.

We are living at a time – and I want all of you if you would, put this in the context of the Bible, not me, in the context of the Bible – we are living in a time where a handful people have wealth beyond comprehension.
And I’m talking about tens of billions of dollars – enough to support their families for thousands of years, with huge yachts and jet planes and tens of billions. More money than they would ever know what to do with.
But at that very same moment, there are millions of people in our country let alone the rest of the world who are struggling to feed their families. They are struggling to put a roof over their heads. And some of them are sleeping out on the streets. They are struggling to find money in order to go to a doctor when they are sick.
Now, when we talk about morality and when we talk about justice, we have to in my view understand that there is no justice when so few have so much and so many have so little.
There is no justice – and I want you to hear this clearly – when the top one-tenth of 1% – not 1% – the top one-tenth of 1% (0.10%) today in America owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
And in your hearts, you will have to determine the morality of that and the justice of that.
In my view, there is no justice when here in Virginia, in Vermont, and all over this country, millions of people are working longer hours for abysmally low wages of $7.25 an hour, of $8 an hour, of $9 an hour. Working hard but unable to bring in enough money to adequately feed their kids. And yet at that same time, 58% of all new income generated is going to the top 1%.
You have got to think about the morality of that, the justice of that, and whether or not that is what we want to see in our country.
In my view, there is no justice when we have seen a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires while at the same time the United States of America has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on Earth.
How can we – I want you to go into your hearts – how can we talk about morality, about justice when we turn our backs on the children of our country?
Now, you’ve got to think about it. You have to think about it. You have to feel it in your guts. Are you content? Do you think it’s moral that 20% of the children in this country – the wealthiest country in the history of the world – are living in poverty? Do you think it is acceptable that 40% of African-American children are living in poverty?
In my view, there is no justice and morality suffers when in our wealthy country millions of children go to bed hungry. That is not morality and that in my view is not what America should be about.

In my view, there is no justice when the 15 – 15 – wealthiest people in this country in the last two years – two years – saw their wealth increased by $170 billion. Two years. Wealthiest 15 people in this country saw their wealth increased by $170.
My friends, that is more wealth acquired in a two-year period than is owned by the bottom 130 million Americans.
And while the very, very rich become much richer, millions of families have no savings at all. Nothing in the bank. And they worry every single day that if their car breaks down, they can’t get to work, and if they can’t get to work, they lose their jobs, and if they lose their jobs, they don’t feed their families.
In the last two years, 15 people saw $170 billion increase in their wealth; 45 million Americans live in poverty. That in my view is not justice.
That is a rigged economy designed by the wealthiest people in this country to benefit the wealthiest people in this country at the expense of everybody else.
In my view, there is no justice when thousands of Americans die every single year because they don’t have any health insurance and don’t go to a doctor when they should.
I have talked personally to doctors throughout Vermont and physicians all over this country. And without exception, they tell me that there are times when patients walk into their office very, very sick. And they say “Why didn’t you come here when you were sick?” And the answer is, “I didn’t have any health insurance” or “I have a high deductible”, “I thought the problem would get better.” And sometimes it doesn’t and sometimes they die because they [don’t have] health insurance.
That is not justice. That is not morality.
People should not be dying in the United States of America when they are sick.
What that is is an indication that we are the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right, and I think we should change that.
And I think that when we talk about morality, what we are talking about is all of God’s children – the poor, the wretched – they have a right to go to a doctor when they are sick.
You know, there is a lot of talk in this country from politicians about family values. You’ve all heard that.
Well, let me tell you about a family value.

In my view, there is no justice when low-income and working class mothers are forced to separate from their babies one or two weeks after birth and go back to work because they need the money that their jobs provide.
Now, I know everybody here – we all are – maybe in different ways but all of us believe in family values.
Jane and I have four kids. We have seven beautiful grandchildren. We believe in family values.
But it is not a family value when all of you know that the most important moments in time of a human being’s life is the first weeks and months after that baby is born; that is the moment when mother bonds with the baby, gets to love and know her baby. And that is there as well. That is what a family is about.
And those of you, at least those of you who are parents – more parents back here than there I suspect – you know what an unforgettable moment that is, what an important moment that is.
And I want you to think whether you believe it is a family value that the United States of America is the only, only major country on Earth that does not provide paid family and medical leave.
Now, in English what that means is that all over the world, when a woman has her baby, she is guaranteed the right because society understands how important that moment is – she is guaranteed the right to stay home and get income in order to nurture her baby.
And that is why I believe when we talk about family values that the United States government must provide at least 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.
In my view, there is no justice in our country when youth unemployment exists at tragic, tragically high levels.
I requested a study last month from a group of economists and what they told me is that 51% of African-American high school graduates between the ages of 17 and 20 are unemployed or under-employed. 51%.
We have in this country sufficient amounts of money to put more people in jail than any other country on Earth…The United States has more people in jail than China – a communist authoritarian country. But apparently we do not have enough money to provide jobs and education to our young people. I believe that’s wrong.
I am not a theologian. I am not an expert on the Bible. Nor am I a Catholic.
I am just a United States Senator from the small state of Vermont. But I agree with Pope Francis who will soon be coming to visit us in the United States – I agree with Pope Francis when he says and I quote “The current financial crisis originated in a profound human crisis: The denial of the primacy of the human person.”
And this is what he writes: “We have created new idols. The worship of the ancient golden calf has returned in a new and ruthless guise in the idolatry of money and the dictatorship of an impersonal economy lacking a truly human purpose.”

And the pope also writes: “There is a need for financial reform along ethical lines that would produce in its turn an economic reform to benefit everyone. Money has to serve, not to rule.”
Now, those are pretty profound words which I hope we will all think about.
In the pope’s view – and I agree with him – we are living in a nation and in a world and the Bible speaks to this issue – in a nation and in a world – which worships not love of brothers and sisters, not love of the poor and the sick, but worships the acquisition of money and great wealth.
I do not believe that is the country we should be living in.
Money and wealth should serve the people; the people should not have to serve money and wealth.
Throughout human history, there has been endless discussion – it is part of who we are as human beings – people who think and ask questions – endless discussion and debate about the meaning of justice and about the meaning of morality.
And I note that here at Liberty University those are the kinds of discussions that you have everyday and those are the kinds of discussions you should be having and the kinds of discussions we should be having all over America.
I would hope and I conclude with this thought. I would hope very much that as part of that discussion and part of that learning process, some of you will conclude that if we are honest and striving to be a moral and just society, it is imperative that we have the courage to stand with the poor, to stand with working people, and when necessary take on very powerful and wealthy people whose greed in my view is doing this country enormous harm.
Thank you all very much.

And I would also say that as a nation the truth is that a nation which in many ways was created – and I’m sorry to have to say this – from way back on racist principles. That’s a fact.
We have come a long way as a nation. Now, I know – my guess is that probably not everybody here is an admirer or a voter for Barack Obama. But the point is that in 2008, this country took a huge step forward in voting for a candidate based on his ideas and not the color of his skin.
And whether you like Obama or not – and I do; he’s a friend of mine and I work with him on many issues – that is a step forward for America.
But let me also say what everybody here knows and my thoughts having just returned from South Carolina, we all know to what degree racism remains alive in this country.
I cannot understand – I really can’t. I think about it. I try to understand it – how a sick man can walk into a Bible study class, discuss the Bible, pray with people in the room, and then take out a gun and kill nine of them because the color of their skins were different than his.
And I cannot understand for the life of me how there can be hundreds of groups in this country whose sole reason for existence is to promote hatred. These are hate groups. And they say “Join us so we hate African-Americans or gays or Jews or immigrants or anybody that is different from us”. I can’t understand that.
But let us be clear that when you have unarmed African-Americans shot…[by police officers] something which has been going on for years that is also institutional racism and cries out for reform.
I am a former mayor who’s worked closely with police officers. Vast majority of them are honest, work hard and do a very good job.
But when a police officer breaks the law as is the case with any other public official, that officer must be held accountable. That’s justice.
And there is a lot to be done in terms of our criminal justice system in terms of minimal sentencing, in terms of local police departments which look like armies that are invading a community.
But to answer your question, I think what we have got to do is when we see instances of racism, when we hear political leaders appeal to the worst elements of us by making racist attacks against people from another country or people whose color may be different than most of us, we have got to stand up and say in America you’re not going to do that. Racism is unacceptable.

I do understand and I do believe that it is improper for the United States government or state government to tell every woman in this country the very painful and difficult choice that she has to make on that issue.
And I honestly don’t want to be too provocative here. But very often conservatives say, you know, “Get the government out of my life. I don’t want the government telling me what to do.”
But on this very sensitive issue of which this nation is divided – a lot of people agree with you, a lot of people agree with me – but my view is I respect absolutely a family that says “No, we are not going to have an abortion.” I understand that and I respect that.
But I would hope that other people respect the very painful and difficult choice that many women feel they have to make and don’t want the government telling them what they have to do.
But, but I want to take that question a step further…
We do disagree on that issue. No ifs and buts about it. I respect your point of view. I hope you respect my point of view.
But here’s where I hope we have common ground. Now, I’m not trying to be partisan during my remarks. I have not.
But I am going to be partisan for a moment because I want to lay this on your shoulders.
I am the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Budget Committee and that means I lead the Democrats in opposition. The Republicans control the House and the Senate.
Now, I want to tell you what was in the Republican budget that passed a number of months ago…
When you talk about issues of children, understand Republican budget threw 27 million people of off health care, including many children.
At a time when many families cannot afford to send their kids to college – and I am running on a program by the way that says every public college and university in America should be tuition free – but at a time when families cannot afford to send their kids to college, Republican budget cut $90 billion in Pell Grants over a 10-year period.
At a time when children in America are going hungry, Republican budget cut billions of dollars in nutrition programs, including money to the WIC program which goes to low-income pregnant women and their babies.
And to add insult to injury, in that budget the Republicans provided over $250 billion over a 10-year period in tax breaks to the top two-tenths of 1% (0.20%).
I don’t think that is a moral budget.

If the question is do we have a moral responsibility not just alone but to work with Europe and by the way to work some of these very, very wealthy Gulf region countries like Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, to help stem this human tragedy which all of us are seeing.
Can you imagine people leaving their homes in Syria or Iraq with simply the clothes on their back…[inaudible]?
Do we have a moral responsibility in working with the rest of the world in providing help, bringing some of those people into this country? The answer is absolutely yes. Absolutely yes.
But this is where it gets tricky. That’s in a sense a reasonably easy response. We should do that.
Here’s where it becomes hard. All of you know that the Middle East and other parts of the world are in a real quagmire. We’re living in a pretty crazy and dangerous world.
We see horror stories every single day of ISIS and people doing barbaric things. We all know that. And this is really where it gets tough.
I voted against the war in Iraq. And I voted against that war because I worry very much – and if you read what I wrote at that time, you’ll find what I’m telling is the truth – about the instability and destabilization that that would bring about.
So the question of U.S. military force becomes part of this discussion.
And let me just say this – I am the former chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs and I would hope that this is an area all of us can agree on that we are going to provide all of the health care and benefits that our veterans need.
But the cost of war…is something that is far greater, I fear, than most people know. And before we go off to war, we have got to make certain that we have explored every other possible option.
You know, people may not know this but as the former chairman, I do. In Iraq and Afghanistan we lost 6,700 brave men and women. Many came home without legs and arms and eyesight. 500,000 of them came home with post traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury. Their lives have been totally disrupted. Families have been separated. Children have suffered.
A great nation like the United States of America with the most powerful military on Earth in my view should use every possible opportunity to resolve international conflict without going to war. War should be the last resort.

But this is what I would like prayers to be for – not just for me. Far more significantly are prayers for our country, prayers for how we bring our people together, prayers for how we can create in the wealthiest country in the history of the world a beautiful country, a country where all people have health care, where all kids who have the ability can go to college, where we have wiped out childhood poverty.
Those are the prayers that I want to join with you in making.
