…Next week, we will be celebrating the Fourth of July – the day when the founders of this country declared independence from what they viewed as a tyrannical aristocracy in England.
Yet today, in many respects, the tyrannical aristocracy is no longer a foreign power but a billionaire class, which now has unprecedented economic and political power over the American people.
In fact, if we do not make the necessary changes to reduce skyrocketing wealth and income inequality, this country in my view is well on its way to becoming an oligarchic form of society, a nation in which a handful of extremely wealthy people control not only our economy but our political life as well.
Let’s be clear: The United States is the wealthiest nation in the history of the world but the vast majority of our people don’t sense that, don’t feel that because almost all of the wealth is concentrated in the hands of the few.
In the year 2015, the U.S. has by far the most unequal distribution of wealth and income of any major developed country on Earth, and this inequality is worse today than at any time since 1928. We are moving in exactly the wrong direction.
The fact of the matter is that over the past 40 years, we have witnessed an enormous transfer of wealth from the middle class and working families of our country to multi-millionaires and billionaires.
Now, my Republican colleagues often express their fear about wealth distribution. In fact, that is exactly what has been happening over the last 30 years. There has been a massive transfer of wealth but it has gone from the middle class and working families to the people at the top.
According to the most recent statistics, and this chart makes it pretty clear, the share of the nation’s wealth going to the bottom 90% of Americans has gone down from 36% in 1985 to just 22.8% in 2013.
Meanwhile, over the same time period, the top 0.1% saw its share of the nation’s wealth more than double going from 10% in 1985 to 22% today.
In other words, the top 0.1% own nearly as much wealth as the bottom 90% of Americans.
That is an extraordinary and tragic reality.
In the last two years – I want you to picture this – in the last two years, the wealthiest 15 people in this country – 15 people – about what’s sitting in this room right now – saw an increase in their wealth by $170 billion. Increase in wealth in two years – $170 billion.
That is more wealth than is owned collectively by the bottom 130 million Americans.
Today, the wealthiest family in this country, the Walton family, is now worth more than the bottom 42% of the American people.
In terms of income, not wealth, income, the top 1% earns more than the bottom 50%.
Since the Great Recession of 2008, 99% of all new income is now going to the top 1%.
At a time when the rich are getting richer and when almost all new income and wealth is going to the people on top, how have my Republican colleagues responded to this grotesque level of income and wealth inequality?
Well, what they have done unbelievably is to pass legislation which provides a $269 billion tax break to the wealthiest 5,400 Americans in this country – the top 0.2%.
So in the midst of massive wealth inequality, what the Republicans have said is “Oh, let us give the very, very, very wealthiest people a gigantic tax break”.
And they do this by completely repealing the estate tax.
Now, in my view, this is wrong morally. We should not exacerbate income and wealth inequality when it is so bad today.
It is wrong economically. We do not need to be putting more money into the hands of the very richest people in this country while the middle class continues to decline.
But this is not what Bernie Sanders believes or what Jan Schakowsky believes.
More than a century ago, President Teddy Roosevelt, a good Republican, fought for the creation of a progressive estate tax in order to reduce the enormous concentration of wealth that existed during the Gilded Age.
And this is what President Teddy Roosevelt said about 100 years ago: “The absence of effective state and especially national restraint upon unfair money-getting has tended to create a small class of enormously wealthy and economically powerful men whose chief object is to hold and increase their power. The prime need is to change the conditions which enable these men to accumulate power. Therefore, I believe in a graduated inheritance tax on big fortunes properly safeguarded against evasion and increasing rapidly in amount with the size of the estate.”
Teddy Roosevelt. I don’t hear too many Republicans speaking that language today.
While Roosevelt spoke those words in 1910, they are even more relevant today.
Income and wealth inequality in my view is the great moral issue of our time. It is the great economic issue of our time. And as a result of Citizens United, it is the great political issue of our time.
No great nation can flourish when so few have so much and so many have so little.
Now, one of the straightforward ways to address wealth inequality, invest in the disappearing middle class, and preserve our democracy is to enact a progressive estate tax on multi-millionaires and billionaires.
As you know for almost 100 years, this country has had an estate tax on the books that only taxes the inheritances of the very wealthiest people in this country.
Today, that tax only applies to the wealthiest 0.2% and my Republican colleagues, who are so anxious to protect the interests of the wealthy and the powerful, they want to eliminate that.
But I think we should move in a very different direction. And that is why along with Congresswoman Schakowsky, I’m introducing the Responsible Estate Tax Act.
This legislation which only applies to the top 0.3% – 99.7% of people will not pay a nickel more in taxes – includes a progressive estate tax structure so that the super wealthy pay more.
And this includes a progressive estate tax rate structure so that the super wealthy pay more. It establishes a 10% surtax on billionaires. It closes estate tax loopholes that have allowed the wealthy billions in estate taxes. It exempts the first $3.5 million of an estate from federal taxation; $7 million for couples…
The ruling of the Supreme Court today is a common sense decision that affirms what most of us already knew, and that is that when we passed the Affordable Care Act in 2010, we intended to expand…access to affordable comprehensive health insurance.
As Chief Justice Roberts notes in his opinion and I quote, “Congress passed the ACA to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them.”
You know, we are the only major country on Earth that doesn’t guarantee health care to all of our people as a right.
Today, 35 million Americans have no health insurance. More are under-insured. The idea that we would simply throw another 6.4 million people off of health insurance and totally disrupt the Affordable Care Act makes no sense to me and I’m glad that the Supreme Court ruled in the way that it did.
