…This VA Conference Committee legislation that we are bringing forward today is far from what I would have written if I have to do it alone, and I suspect it’s fair to say, it is far from what Chairman Miller would have done if he wrote this bill by himself.
It is a compromise legislation. There’s been give and take on both sides. And let me be very clear that I strongly support what we have come up with.
This bill makes certain that we address the immediate crisis of veterans being forced onto long waiting lines for health care.
It strengthens the VA so it will be able to hire the doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel it needs so that we can put a permanent end to long waiting lists.
It addresses the very serious problems of accountability and makes certain that dishonest and incompetent senior officials at the VA do not remain employed there, and in addition it provides some other significant benefits for veterans and their families.
Funding for veterans’ needs must be considered a cost of war and appropriated as emergency spending. Planes and tanks and guns are a cost of war. So is taking care of the men and women who use those weapons and who fight our battles.
This was the funding mechanism contained in the Sanders-McCain bill, which passed the Senate with 93 votes, and it is the funding mechanism in this bill.
Sufficient sums of money must be provided so that the VA has the resources to immediately end unacceptably long waiting periods in many VA facilities throughout the country.
This bill does that by contracting out with private medical providers or community health centers, Department of Defense facilities, et cetera. This was something that was contained in the House bill, and we basically accept that language.
This agreement consistent with the Sanders-McCain bill allows veterans who live 40 miles or more from the VA facility to get their health care outside of VA. I think what we appreciate if you live 100 miles away and you’re sick, you should not have to make that long trip.
You should be able to go to a provider in your community.
This bill in terms of dollars provides some $10 billion for contracting out of health care and for those veterans who live 40 miles or more away. $10 billion.
Acting VA Secretary Sloan Gibson and many of the veterans organizations have made it clear that we need to make sure the VA has the doctors and nurses and medical personnel, the space they need. This bill provides $5 billion for the VA to strengthen their capabilities.
This legislation consistent with bills passed in the House, I think, unanimously and in the Senate as part of the Sanders-McCain authorizes funding for the VA to enter in 27 – into leases at 27 major facilities and 18 states and Puerto Rico. That will cost about $8.5 billion.
We have all been outraged by the distortion of data and so forth. This bill contains language which will allow the Secretary to fire people immediately who are underperforming or lying. It gives them a 21 day period of appeal without pay during that period.
This bill also contains some other provisions included in Sanders-McCain.
It improves the delivery of care to veterans who experience sexual trauma while serving in the military.
It expands the John Davis Price [sp] Scholarship Program to include surviving spouses of members of the armed forces who died in the line of duty and it also lets all veterans qualify for in-state tuition under the post-9/11 GI bill.
And it also extends a program regarding TBI [traumatic brain injury].
In terms of money, this bill will provide $17 billion into VA health care. There’s a $5 billion offset within the VA, approximately $12 billion of new money.
So this has been a very difficult process, and it takes place – Chairman Miller and I working – in the context philosophically the House and the Senate being very different institutions, looking at the world very differently. A lot of partisanship going on. It has been a very, very difficult process.
And I want to thank Chairman Miller very much. I think from Day One he understood that it is absolutely imperative that we get this bill done and we get it done now before the August break. It certainly would not have happened without his determination and his hard work, and I thank him very much for that.
