Every member of this Senate and every American understands the very deep debt of gratitude that we owe to the men and women who’ve put their lives on the line to defend this country.
That should not be a political issue. It should not be a partisan issue.
I think all of us have been appalled by what we read about in Phoenix and in other locations about people manipulating data, pretending that veterans were getting care in a timely manner when that wasn’t the case.
It is my strong belief as Chairman of the Veterans Committee that every veteran in this country is entitled to high quality medical care and that they should get that care in a timely manner.
I’m going to do everything I can to make that happen.
We live, as everybody knows, in a politically divided country and a divided Congress. Reaching agreements is not easy and quite frankly does not take place very often here in the Senate. Unfortunately for whatever reason without casting blame, it just doesn’t happen and the American people understand that and are not happy about that.
So, reaching a compromise among people who look at the world very differently is not easy. But in this process, Sen. John McCain of Arizona and I have tried our best to come forward with an agreement.
It’s an agreement, which I’m sure he is not 100% happy about, and I can assure you I am not 100% happy about. I would have written a very, very different bill.
And what I want to say now in thanking Sen. Harry Reid for his strong support for this process – Chuck Schumer, Patty Murray, Dick Durbin – pushing this effort forward, I hope that we will be back on the floor to continue the effort to deal with the many unmet needs of veterans.
But right now we have a crisis on our hands and it’s imperative that we deal with that crisis.
And to my mind, the essence of the crisis is is that we have learned that in many parts of this country, not all parts but many parts of this country, veterans cannot get the timely care that they need. They cannot walk into a VA and within a reasonable period of time get the treatment that they need.
And so this bill in a significant way begins to address that important issue, and let me very briefly tell you how it does that.
For it’s thought there are many locations around the country where we need new facilities. We need refurbished facilities. We need expanded facilities.
In fact, there are 26 locations in 18 states where that is the case. This legislation would allow the construction of 26 major medical facility leases in 18 states around the country, and I believe that will help us in many parts of the country in providing the quality timely care that our veterans deserve.
Mr. President, in my view, there are areas of the country where we simply do not have the doctors, the nurses, and the other staff that we need to provide the care that our veterans deserve.
Many primary care physicians get burned out by working 12, 14 hours a day. They quit. The turnover rate is too high.
It is my view that the VA by in large – and this is echoed by the views of the veterans communities themselves and independent studies – that when people get into the VA the quality of care is good.
But I will tell you if you don’t have the primary care physicians, the other physicians, the nurses that you need to treat veterans, they are not going to get the care that they need.
This legislation will target $500 million in un-obligated balances for the hiring of new VA doctors and nurses. I see that as a significant step forward.
Mr. President, one of the great I think embarrassments or shocks that all of us feel is that in the military we have seen in recent years horrendous accounts of sexual assault.
What this legislation does is say to those women and men who were sexually assaulted in the military that when you get into the VA there is going to be quality care for your needs.
This legislation also touches on a couple of issues that are not directly related to health care but have overwhelming support in the House and in the Senate.
We have heard from many young veterans who are in college as a result of the post-9/11 G.I. bill who right now can’t afford to go to college because they’re not getting in-state tuition. This legislation addresses that issue.
I have talked, as I know Sen. McCain has, to Gold Star Wives. These are women who have lost their husbands in combat who I think for not sensible reason are unable to take advantage of the post-9/11 G.I. bill. They want to get their lives together. They want to go to college or whatever. This bill addresses that issue.
Now, there’s another provision which was strongly supported by Sen. McCain and other Republican leaders…What this provision does is says that if you are 40 miles or further away from a VA health care facility – a medical center, a [community outpatient center], or whatever it may be – you will be able to go to the doctor of your choice under the strict supervision of the VA.
What this will do is prevent people in some cases in very rural areas – I think this is mostly a bill for people in very rural areas who now have to travel long distances to get their health care. This will make their lives easier. This is a two-year trial project. We will see how it turns out. But that is in the bill as well.
Last point that I want to make is I don’t think there’s any disagreement in the Senate and among the American people that when you have incompetent people in the VA – or worse, dishonest people in VA – they should be removed from their jobs immediately and that the Secretary of the VA should have to the power to get rid of them. I don’t think there’s any debate about that.
Where there has been some debate is my view is that those employees deserve due process, and I say that because I don’t want to see a situation where a new President comes in and for political reasons fires 400 top executives because they’re Democrats or they’re Republicans or whatever. I don’t want to see a situation where somebody is fired because she’s a woman or black or Hispanic or maybe gay, and maybe really that’s the underlying motive and that person has no course of appeal.
So what we have done is develop a very expedited process in terms of dismissal. If you are dismissed, you’re off the payroll tomorrow. You’re gone. But you’re going to have a week to file an appeal and the appropriate body will have three weeks to rule on your appeal, and I think that makes sense. When you think about it, it does make sense.
So Madam President, there are a few other important provisions. It is important in my view for the nation to take advantage of the expertise that’s out there in the private sector. How do we develop information technology for people accessing the VA? We want to do that. We have a commission that would help us do that. And we have another presidential commission that will help us with construction, which has been an ongoing problem in the VA.
…So Mr. President, that is a brief overview of what is in the legislation. Does it solve all of the problems facing our veterans? Absolutely not. Should we come back and continue to deal with this issue? Absolutely.
But I think given the crises that we have right now, this is an important step forward.
I want to thank Sen. McCain. Sen. McCain’s views on many issues are not my views. We look at the world differently but that is what democracy is about. And our job was to sit down and work out the best agreement we did, and I think from day one Sen. McCain showed absolute good faith in this, a desire to reach a compromise. I hope he feels that I did the same, and we are where we are today…
