…Mr. President, if you talk to the people in Vermont – and I suspect in any other state in America – they will tell you that the most serious crisis facing this country is the lack of jobs, particularly when it comes to young Americans. This is an issue we do not talk enough about, and this is an issue we have got to focus on.
Yes, we are better off today than we were six years ago when we were hemorrhaging 700,000 jobs a month and the nation’s financial system was on the verge of collapse.
But the truth of the matter is that the economy for working families and lower income families today remains in very, very difficult straits.
The middle class of this country, the backbone of this country, continues to disappear, and more and more people are living in poverty. In fact, we have almost more people living in poverty today than at any time in the history of this country and all the while we are seeing more wealth and income inequality such that 95% of all new income generated in America since the Wall Street crash is going to the top 1%.
Now the fact of the matter is that real unemployment in this country is not the official 6.1% we see in the front pages of newspapers.
The truth is that if you count those people who have given up looking for work because they live in high unemployment areas or those people – and there are many of these – who are working part time when they want to work full time, Mr. President, real unemployment is 12%. That is a crisis situation.
Now as bad as that is, the unemployment rate is far worse for young Americans.
Today, the youth unemployment rate is 20%. 20%.
We all paid a lot of attention to the tragedy in Ferguson, Missouri a few weeks ago, and yet what was not discussed was that African-American youth unemployment is 33%. In many areas of the country it is even higher than that.
Mr. President, today over 5.5 million young people have either dropped out of high school or graduated high school. And you know what they are doing? Nothing. They have no jobs. And many of them in Vermont and throughout this country are hanging out on street corners, and many of them are getting into trouble. Maybe they’re doing drugs; maybe they’re involved in crimes.
But this I will tell you – and the statistics are very clear on this – if you leave school either you drop out or you graduate high school, and you don’t get a job in your first year, you don’t get a job in your second year, you don’t get a job in your third year, there is a strong likelihood that you will never get a job, never get a career, never make it to the middle class, never be part of mainstream America.
Youth unemployment – 20% – is clearly one of the reasons why in the United States of America we have more people in jail today than any other country on earth. A lot of people don’t know that.
China’s a great big country, Communist authoritarian country. Doesn’t China put more people in jail than we do? No. We have more people in jail than China.
Mr. President, I think the time is long overdue for us to start investing in our young people, helping them get the jobs they need, helping them get the education they need, helping them get the job training they need so they can be part of our economy, part of the middle class and not end up in jail or dead from overdoses of drugs.
Mr. President, the situation is so dire that there are studies out there that tell us now that one out of every three African-American males born today – if we do not change this – one out of three will go to prison in his lifetime. One out of three…
