Madam President, I thank Sen. Rubio for his remarks and I think many of us share the exact same concerns that he has raised.
When men and women put their lives on the line to defend our country, they are entitled to the best quality health care that we can provide to them.
In my view and I think in the view of virtually every veterans’ organization, the VA does provide good quality health care to those people who access the VA system.
But there are very serious problems in terms of access. There are serious problems regarding waiting lists. There are serious problems regarding the possibility of hospitals keeping two sets of books. And we’re going to get to the root of those issues.
But one thing we do not want to do, Madam President, is politicize the well-being of America’s heroes.
And let me quote to you, if I might, an editorial in the Washington Post today. This is what the editorial says: “The men and women who have served their country in uniform deserve better than delay or denial of the medical care they need and have earned. So it is crucial to get to the bottom of allegations of misconduct at the nation’s veterans hospitals. America’s veterans also deserve not to be treated as so many pawns in election year gamesmanship. But that sadly is proving to be the case in Congress’s increasingly hyperbolic response.”
Then it goes on: “That the extent of wrongdoing is unclear doesn’t seem to matter much to those more interested in scoring political points. How else to explain the knee jerk calls namely by Republicans in the House and Senate for the ouster of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric K. Shinseki or the ill-advised and punitive legislation aimed at VA workers.”
Now, let me just make this point. I happen to think that the bill that was passed in the House yesterday has many important provisions, which I happen to agree with.
But as the Senator from Florida knows, we have not held a hearing on this legislation and some of us are old-fashioned enough to know that maybe folks in the Senate might want to know what is in the bill before we voted on it.
Senator from Florida is right – it passed with very strong support in the House, and in my view a similar bill containing some of the salient provisions in the House will pass in the Senate. But it is important that that bill be discussed.
And I would tell you, Madam President, that one of the concerns that I have is I do not want to see the VA politicized.
It is one thing to say, which I agree with, that if a hospital administrator is incompetent, the Secretary should be able to get rid of that administrator without a whole lot of paperwork. I agree with that.
It is another thing to say that if a new administration comes in, whether it’s a Democratic or Republican, that somebody in the Secretary’s office could say “I want to get rid of 20, 30 or 50 hospital administrators because we have other people that we want in there, and we could just get rid of them and they don’t have a right to defend themselves.” I worry about that.
So clearly, we have to discuss the issue. I would suggest that the Senator from Florida understands that it’s probably a good idea to discuss an issue before we vote on it.
So the bottom line for me on this – yes, every top administrator at the VA has got to be held accountable. I do not want to see an enormous amount of paperwork and obstruction go forward before we can get rid of incompetent people. But before we vote on legislation, it might be a good idea to understand the full implication of that legislation and there are some aspects of it that I think some of us have concerns with.
And let me just make a few more points on that issue. I would hope that the Senator from Florida would agree with me that we want to make certain that VA is able to recruit and retain high quality leaders and managers especially when the VA is in competition with other federal agencies for those leaders.
So that end, it is vital to ensure that we are fostering an environment at VA where individuals feel as if they are protected from the political whims of their leaders. That’s the point that I made earlier.
There are other areas that concern me in terms of setting precedents that may not be a good idea.
But bottom line is I think there are important provisions in the bill that passed the House…
But let me just make another point, if I might, and that is I am really very happy to see as much concern being paid to veterans’ needs in the last few weeks – I’m very happy to see that as Chairman of the [veterans affairs] committee. And I would say to Sen. Rubio and others as he is well aware that the veterans community faces many, many serious problems above and beyond what we are hearing in the last few weeks with regard to the VA.
We have 200,000 men and women who have come back from Iraq and Afghanistan either with PTSD or TBI [traumatic brain injury]. I would assume that my friend from Florida agrees with me that they need to get the quality care that they deserve.
I was just – had the privilege, Sen. Rubio, of being honored an hour or so ago by the Gold Star Wives, you know, that those are the widows of men who died in action. We have in legislation that I brought to the floor, which received 56 votes and one Senator was absent which would have netted us 57 votes, but only two Republicans supported that bill and that bill would make it possible for Gold Star Wives – wives who have lost their husbands – to be able to get a college education under the 9/11 GI bill. And I suspect Sen. Rubio and many others support that. That’s in the bills that I’ve brought to the floor.
We have right now I’m sure as Sen. Rubio knows because the problems exist in Vermont but I’m sure in Florida – we have 70-year-old women in most cases who are taking care of disabled vets. They don’t get the support that they need. They’re on duty 24-7. They save the government money because those wounded veterans are staying at home. They need some help. And I want to see them get help, and I would hope Sen. Rubio would work with me to make sure they get that help.
Sen. Rubio is aware as you all, Madam President, that there’s great concern not only in the military medicine – VA DOD – but in the civilian sector about too much use of opiates to treat problems. We have a real serious problem in that. We have language in our overall provision that extends help to the VA to move forward to give our veterans alternative treatments other than opiates, and we think that’s a very important piece of legislation.
We have legislation that has passed, which provides 5 years of free health care in the VA for those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan. We think it’s important to extend that to 10 years.
Many veterans out there do not have access to decent quality dental care. It’s a problem in Vermont. I’d suspect it’s a problem in Florida. We want those veterans to get that care as well.
There’s bipartisan support, Madam President, for advanced appropriation for VA. We have that in our legislation.
While the VA is making good progress in cutting back the backlog in moving from paper to a digital system, I want to see them do better. We have language in there that would push them to do better.
Just this morning, Sen. Rubio, Sen. Burr and I were at a hearing which dealt with the educational problems facing veterans who come back from the battlefield. They go to college and there are problems there. And what most of us think is that we should – veterans should be able to take advantage of in-state tuition in the state in which they are living.
Sexual assault has been a very serious problem in the military. We want the VA to do better than that. Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So, Madam President, I am very glad that my Republican friends virtually all of them – and I want to thank Sen. Heller and Sen. Moran for voting for this bill along with every Democrat. But I’m very glad that my Republican colleagues are now beginning to focus on veterans issues.
And we need to step up to the plate to help not only our veterans but their families. And that’s the legislation that I have offered. So when I say Sen. Rubio “Your legislation has many important provisions, which I happen to agree with. There are some that I think need work on.” And we are going to hold a hearing on that legislation and other legislations in early June.
So I respectfully object to that legislation right now. But I would ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to Calendar Number 297 S.1950 with the Sanders’s amendment, which is at the desk and is the text of S.1982 the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act. That is the comprehensive legislation supported by virtually every veterans organization in the country, millions of veterans and the American people that says “Thank you to the veterans who put their lives on the line to defend this country. We’re going to be there for you.”
So I would ask that this legislation be passed and would ask unanimous consent that that happen.
