Madam President, as Chair of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, I rise today to introduce the Ensuring Veterans Access to Care of 2014. And I want to thank the 16 co-sponsors of this legislation, and they are Senators Rockefeller, Begich, Shaheen, Kaine, Reed, Merkley, Casey, Whitehouse, Blumenthal, Heinrich, Udall (New Mexico), Schatz, Baldwin, Wyden, Hirono, and Leahy.
Madam President, it is safe to say that there is broad bipartisan agreement among all of us that every veteran in this country who enters the VA health care system deserves high quality care and deserves that care in a timely manner.
Overall, talking to veterans in Vermont and in fact throughout this country, talking to the veterans service organizations who represent their interests, and reading independent studies, they’ve all confirmed that by and large once veterans get into the VA health care system, the system is in fact quite good.
However, it has become clear – I think all of us are aware of what has happened in the last month – it has become clear that while quality is generally good, there are too many veterans throughout this country waiting too long to access this care.
In recent years, VA has seen a huge increase in its patient load.
In fact in the last 4 years, 2 million new veterans have come into the system – many of them with very complicated health care cases, including TBI [traumatic brain injury], post-traumatic stress disorder, and many of the needs that older veterans, older people, generally have.
Despite this fact, it is still absolutely unacceptable that some veterans are forced onto long waiting lists for care. And it is totally intolerable, it is reprehensible, that any VA employee could be manipulating data in Phoenix or any place to hide how long veterans have been on waiting lists to see doctors.
This is an issue that must be dealt with and must be dealt with rapidly and strongly.
Madam President, these problems are real and they have to be addressed. But they should not be an excuse to walk away from a system that serves 6.5 million veterans every single year, and 230,000 veterans every single day. This is a system that we must fix, not a system that we should ditch.
We must focus on the underlying problems and work to transform the VA, and I think in general what our legislation does is work in three basic areas.
Number one, we give greater authority to the Secretary to fire incompetent senior officials.
Number two, we take very significant steps to shorten the wait times that many veterans are now experiencing.
And three, we address the long-term health care needs of the VA in terms of a shortage of staff – doctors, nurses – that currently exists in various locations around the country.
Now, let me just go through some of those issues right now.
Several weeks ago, my Republican colleague from Florida [Marco Rubio] requested a vote on legislation that would allow VA Secretaries to immediately remove senior executives due to poor performance.
So let us be clear: I strongly support the effort to make sure that we get rid of incompetent or worse senior executives at the VA. There is no debate about that.
But here’s what the debate is about. I do not think it is a good idea to give the Secretary of an institution, of an agency that has some 300,000 employees the ability to simply fire without any due process. What I worry about, Madam President, is that you can move toward a situation where the VA health care system is politicized in a way that it should not be.
Let me give you an example. A new President comes in with a new Secretary. The new Secretary says – whether it’s a Democratic President or a Republican President – “I want to get rid of 300 senior level appointees, bring in 300 new people”. Four years later, another President comes in, different party – “We’re going to get rid of those 300 people, bring in 300 more people.” I do not think that that provides the kind of stability that the largest integrated health care system in America needs or deserves. I worry about the politicalization.
Second of all, I worry about an instance where a whistleblower stands up, who’s critical of this or that aspect of the VA. That person could be fired without due process. I worry that there may be a situation where somebody is fired not because of bad performance or maybe they’re a woman – somebody doesn’t like a woman in that position. Maybe they’re gay. Maybe they’re black. Maybe they’re whatever. And that person does not have any ability to appeal that decision. I think that’s wrong. I think that’s bad policy.
On the other hand, what I do believe is that person should be taken out of his or her job immediately but that person must have the right to have an expedited appeal. And what our legislation does is give the person a week to bring forth the appeal and gives the appropriate appeal body three weeks to make a decision.
Now, you’re dealing with people who are MDs, Ph.Ds – high-level people – whose professionalism is on the line, and I just don’t think you can fire people willy-nilly without giving them a chance in an expedited manner to express their point of view.
So that is one difference that I have with my colleague from Florida on his proposal.
Now, let me talk a little about the major concern that I have and that is how do we shorten wait times. How do we make certain that in those areas of the country where there are long waiting periods or where veterans may be geographically a long distance away from a facility, how do we make sure that they timely care.
The legislation that I’ve offered takes immediate action to provide timely access for care for our veterans. First, this legislation would standardize VA’s process for providing non-VA care when the department is unable to provide care to the veterans within its stated goal.
As DAV – the Disabled American Veterans – pointed out in a release today, VA must continue to be responsible for coordinating their care amongst various VA and non-VA providers. This legislation accomplishes that goal by providing a framework for consistent decision-making regarding non-VA care. Under this legislation, VA would coordinate non-VA care by taking into accounts wait times for care, the health of the veteran, the distance the veteran would be required to travel as well as the veteran’s choice. This bill also addresses VA’s systemwide health care provider shortages.
But in terms of the wait list, what we say in English is if there is an unacceptable wait time or if a veteran is a long distance away from a provider, we are going to allow – and we must allow – that veteran to get health care through a private provider, through a federally-qualified community health center, through a Department of Defense military base if that’s available, with Indian Health Service if that’s available. That exists now in Alaska, and that might be expanded.
So bottom line here is if there are waiting lists beyond what is reasonable, the veterans of this country should be able to get into non-VA health care in a timely manner, and this bill does that.
But importantly, Madam President, this bill also addresses a very significant issue that I think we cannot ignore, and that is that it appears to be that in many parts of the country, we simply don’t have the doctors and nurses that we need when an influx of veterans are coming into the system.
I was just talking to some very knowledgeable people today who are telling me about burnout, primary care physicians, psychiatrists are just seeing more and more patients and turnover rates are much too high.
The last thing that we want to do is to see rapid turnover because people are burnt out and just don’t have the time to do the quality work they want to do.
Let me quote, if I can Madam President, an article that appeared in the New York Times on May 29th which addresses this issue. Here’s what it says – and I quote – “Dr. Phyllis Hollenbeck, a primary care physician, took a job at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Jackson, Mississippi in 2008 expecting fulfilling work and lighter patient load than she had had in private practice. What she found was quite different. 13 hour work days fueled by large patient loads that kept growing as colleagues quit and were not replaced. Appalled by what she saw, Dr. Hollenbeck filed a whistleblower complaint and changed jobs. A subsequent investigation by the Department of Veterans Affairs concluded last fall that indeed the Jackson Hospital did not have enough primary care doctors, resulting in nurse practitioners handling far too many complex cases and numerous complaints from veterans about the delayed care. ‘It was unethical to put us in that position’, Dr. Hollenbeck said of the over-stressed primary care unit in Jackson. ‘Your heart gets broken.'”
So here we had a physician that wanted to do the right thing, wanted to spend the appropriate amounts of time that she needed with her patients. She was unable to do that. And what we’re hearing is that in many parts of this country, primary care physicians are just saying “We can’t do it. Too many people are coming in.” So I think this is an issue that has to be addressed and our legislation does that.
Our legislation gives the VA the ability to rapidly hire new doctors, nurses, and other health are providers in areas with identified shortages. It also enables VA’s ability to recruit qualified health providers by enhancing scholarships and loan payment opportunities.
Madam President, as I know you well know as you’re on the committee that deals with this issue, we have a crisis in this country in terms of the lack of primary care practitioners. This is a very serious problem. There are experts that tell us in fact that we need 50,000 new primary care physicians in the next 10 to 15 years. And this is a national problem. It is a problem within the VA. And what this legislation proposes is that the VA work with the National Health Service Corps in order to provide debt forgiveness, scholarships to medical school students so when they graduate they could get into the VA and practice the quality medicine that we need there.
This bill also in addition to that addresses another issue that has been discussed a lot. I think there’s widespread bipartisan support for that and that support in the House as well and that is the authorization of some 27 major medical facilities leases. In many instances, these leases would improve access to care closer to home and it would increase the availability of specialty care services in those locations. In addition, these will allow the VA to decompress over-utilized VA facilities. This is an important issue. I believe there’s bipartisan support for it. That is in this legislation.
Furthermore, Madam President, this bill would require the President to create a commission to look at VA health care access issues and recommend actions to bolster capacity.
In the last couple of days, I have heard a lot of ideas out there about how we can deal with the issue but we need a high-level commission of some of the most knowledgeable people in this country appointed by the President to report within 90 days some ideas of how the VA can proceed.
So, Madam President, I want to thank the 16 or so co-sponsors that we have. I look forward to working with my Republican colleagues. We’ve got a problem. We have to address that problem and I hope that we can do it in a bipartisan way…
