
…As Vermont’s Senator in my political career, I have done hundreds of town meetings in the state of Vermont, and it is great to do a town meeting here in New Hampshire.
And the reason that I do town meetings and I think the reason why St. Anselm holds meetings like this in the Institute of Politics is I think that there is an understanding that the way we do politics in this country very often is basically not the right way.
The smartest guy in the world cannot talk about the major problems facing this country in a 5 second soundbite, and the media does a disservice to us and to our nation when they look at politics as an American Idol show – who’s going to win, who’s ahead, who’s up today and who’s down tomorrow.
The problems are serious, and if we take our responsibilities seriously as American citizens, we need to talk about the real issues, respect each other’s different point of view, and learn from each other.
Let me begin by telling you a little bit about myself and about my political history, which is very different I think than most folks in the United States Senate.
I started off my life living in Brooklyn, New York. You all heard of that town south of here. [Laughter]
And my dad was a paint salesman. That’s what he did his whole life. He came to America from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket and he didn’t end his life with a lot more than that. He worked very hard, never made a whole lot of money.
But it turned out not being very political – we were not a political family – he ended up, I perceived as I grew older, how much he loved this country, and he loved this country because it gave him the freedom to raise two kids. He never went to – didn’t graduate high school but his kids graduated college. That was a pretty big deal in our family.
And he had financial security in the sense that he always had a job. Never any money but he had a job. And that meant something to somebody who started off without any money.
I went to the state of Vermont just about 50 years ago, which was the best decision I have ever made in my life. That’s great.
And in the early 1970s, I ran for statewide office. Sen. Winston Prouty – some of you may remember he had passed away. There was a special election and I contested that election. And I ran really hard all over the state and on election day, I ended up with 2% of the vote.
But I was a persistent guy. I wasn’t going to give up in one election. Then we had the regular election in ’72 and I ran on a third party – third party – and I got 1% of the vote. Still, not being the smartest guy in the world and not knowing when to quit, came back and ran for Senate again and I got 4%.
I ran for governor of Vermont in ’76 and got 6% of the vote.
And then I did figure out that was enough, that was enough. I got a clue – all running on a third party without any money.
But then back in 1981, a friend of mine came up to me, and he said “You know, there’s a race for mayor in Burlington” where I lived, and Burlington as you all know in New Hampshire is the largest city in the state of Vermont. It has only 40,000 people, but it is our largest city, beautiful city.
And he said, “You know, looking over the election results for the last time you ran, while you only got 6% of the votes statewide, you got 12% in Burlington and there was some low-income and working wards where you got more than that. You got 12%. You got 14%. And maybe you should run for mayor.”
So we got some people together and we thought about it. And I decided to do it, running as an independent, running as an independent.
And I was taking on at that point back in 1981 an incumbent mayor who had served 5 terms, and nobody – nobody – that this Democratic mayor was – that one could beat him.
And the point that I want to make is not that I won the election by all of 10 votes to everybody’s great shock. That was after the recount. There was 14; it went down to 10. But that how we won that election became a political lesson that has stayed with me for my whole life.
Nobody thought that we had a chance and what we did is we put together a coalition. You all know what a coalition politics is about? It’s kind of an old phrase, not much in vogue now.
But what we did is we said to the low-income people in the city who did not think they were getting a fair shake in terms of city services, “We’re going to stand with you.” In fact, I did press conferences in low-income housing projects.
And we talked to the union – the union workers, who work for the city – the AFSME, the police union, and the fire union. We said, “Look, you’re working hard. You deserve a fair shake in terms of contract negotiations.”
And we talked to women who had never had an opportunity to get into city hall at that time and we said, “We’re going to open the door to everybody – working people, low-income people, and women. You’re not represented at city hall, and we’re going to do that.”
And we talked to the environmentalists in the community who were concerned by a number of projects that were anti-environmental.
And we put together this strange coalition. It was so strange. I often worried about what would happen if we got them all in the same room at the same time because they were very different people. But they have the belief that we should open the doors of government, that we should allow everybody in, that government should not just work for the downtown, for the big money interest but it should work for all people.
And we won that election. We won that election by 10 votes.
Now, I am very proud by what I accomplished as the mayor of Burlington. I think many of you have been to Burlington. Great city.
But of all of my accomplishments as mayor and of all of the many accomplishments that I am proud of that I did when I was in the House and that I’m doing in the Senate, probably the very, very top of that list is one that most people – most media people – would think is irrelevant. But here’s what that accomplishment was: We doubled voter turnout from 1981 to 1983. [Applause]
Now, how did we do that and what is that lesson for today?

What exists all over America today is that millions and millions and millions of people – working people, low-income people, young people – they look at the political process and they say, “Not for me. I don’t know what these guys are doing but it’s sure is not relevant to my life. And no, I’m not going to vote.”
And so we have millions of people who don’t vote. Or we do have other people who go into the polling booth, they hold their nose, and they vote for what they perceive to be the lesser of two evils. Or we have other people who will vote for this or that issue; somebody would get them going on this issue or that issue.
But what we did in Burlington – and it’s a lesson that I’ve never forgotten – is that if in fact you listened to what people have to say and what they need and you do your best – and it’s hard and you’re not perfect and you make mistakes and you can’t always do everything you want. But if people know you are listening to their needs and you fight for them, you know what? They participate in the political process. They come out to vote. [Applause]
And we ended up winning in Burlington. We took on Democrats. We took on Republicans. And we ended up winning 2 to 1 in the low-income and working class wards of the city.
And that lesson has always stayed with me. How in fact do you make government relevant to all of the people in a democratic society? How do you involve people in the process? How do you stand up and fight for ordinary Americans?

Now, my view is – and what I’m going to be talking to you about today – is that our great country – and we all love our country and we worry about our country – that our great country today probably has more serious problems than at any time since the Great Depression in the 1930s. And if you throw in what the scientific community tells us that climate change is real, that it is already causing devastating problems, and that it is likely to get worse unless we reverse and cut back on greenhouse gas emissions, if you throw that in, we may have more serious problems today than at any time in the modern history of this country.
And at the center of what those problems are – what people perceive, what every poll tells us – is that people understand the sad reality that the great middle class of this country, which was once the envy of the entire world, that middle class is disappearing.
And people understand that millions of people are now falling into poverty, that we have more people living in poverty today than at any time in the history of the United States of America.
And people understand that real unemployment – if you include those people who have given up looking for work and people who are working part-time when they want to work full-time – they understand that real unemployment is not 6.5% but it is close to 12%. The youth unemployment is near 20%; African-American youth unemployment almost doubled that.
And people understand because they are living the reality that millions of Americans today despite a huge increase in productivity, despite all of the robotics and all of the space age technology, and all of the increase in productivity so that the average worker today is producing more – people understand and know because it is their lives that they are working longer hours for lower wages. And that many people in my state and in your state they’re not working; they’re working two jobs; they’re working three jobs trying to cobble together an income and maybe some health insurance.
And people understand when we talk about health care that there is something profoundly wrong that in this great nation we are the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right of citizenship. [Applause]
Now, there are a lot of angry people out there. They’re angry in Vermont. They’re angry in New Hampshire. They’re angry in Mississippi, California. All over this country.
And what they are angry about – and I’m going to bore you with some statistics – but I think it’s important that you hear it.
They are angry that since 1999 the typical middle class family has seen its income go down by more than $5,000 after adjusting for inflation. Got that? People are working hard. Why is their income going down?
They’re angry because that same typical middle-class family – that family right in the middle – earn less income last year than it earned 25 years ago, and maybe that’s an issue we might want to be chatting about a little.
They are angry because the typical male worker made $283 less last year than he did 44 years ago.
So you see these guys and they are angry and they are furious. They don’t quite know where their anger should go but they’re angry. That’s why – they’re working but their incomes are going down.
Typical female workers earn $1,700 less last year than they did in 2007 despite all of the increases in productivity.
And people are angry and they are frightened and very, very nervous about the fact that half of all Americans have less than $10,000 in their savings account. Can you imagine that? Half of all Americans. That means you’re one automobile accident away from disaster, one illness away from disaster.
And when people are 50 and 55 and 60 and they’re thinking about retirement and they have $10,000 in the bank, they’re pretty nervous about the future of their lives.
Today in America, over 5.5 million young people have either dropped out of high school or graduated high school and they have no jobs and they are hanging out on street corners in Vermont and New Hampshire and California and states all over this country.
And a lot of these kids with no jobs, with no future, are doing destructive or self-destructive activities. And I don’t have to talk to you about heroin or opiate addiction. And I don’t have to tell you that there’s something fundamentally wrong in our country when we end up with having more people in jail than China or any other country on Earth. [Applause]
And when people look about what’s happening in America, when they go shopping in the store. They get angry because when they go shopping and they try to buy a product – a holiday gift – and they look at the label and they say where does that come from, and it comes from China, it comes Vietnam, it comes from Mexico. And meanwhile, they look at their own communities and they know that factories that used to pay workers a living wage have long been gone. The corporations taking advantage of our disastrous trade policies shut down in America even if they were profitable here, and they go to China or other countries where they can pay people low, low wages.
Not so many years ago, General Motors was the largest private employer in the United States of America. And they paid their workers, who were unionized, good wages and good benefits.
Today, the largest private sector employer is Wal-Mart – vehemently anti-union – who pay their workers low-wages with minimal benefits.
And if you want to look at the transformation of the American economy, you can look at it from being a General Motors economy producing real products, paying workers real wages with good benefits to a Wal-Mart economy – anti-union, low wages, minimal benefits. [Applause]

In terms of education – and I think we all understand that the nation does not go forward, we do not compete effectively in the global economy, we don’t do the important things unless we’re a well-educated nation.
It used to be not so many years ago that the United States ranked first in the world in terms of the percentage of our people who graduated college. Today, we are I believed tied for 15th place.
Hundreds of thousands of young people – bright young people – have given up on the dream of going to college because they simply can’t afford it or because they don’t want to leave school $30,000 or $40,000 or $50,000 in debt.
And perhaps most sadly and most fundamentally is that people – middle-age people, working families – they shake their heads not only in terms of the stress of what is happening to their own lives but even more significantly they worry about their kids and their grandchildren. And they ask themselves is it going to happen for the first time in the modern history of America that our kids are going to have a lower standard of living than our generation? Or are our kids going to be able to go out into the world and get a job with a living wage? In fact, are our kids going to be able to go out and find any job at all?
Do you know what it means for a kid who graduates high school who can’t find a job in one year, in two years, in three years? You know what that does to that kid, that kid’s entire life? And that’s what parents are worrying about.

…About health care. One or two things about this Affordable Care Act, this revolutionary communist socialist plot. [Laughter] As I think many of you know, the concept of the Affordable Care Act came from Republican think tanks and it was implemented by their well-known communist Mitt Romney a few miles south of here. [Laughter]
I voted for it, with hesitation, but I voted for it among other reasons because I was able to get $10 billion in it to expand community health centers all over this country and get some other provisions in there for disease provision and make it easier for people to get to medical schools and pay their medical bill so we can deal with primary health care. [Applause]
But let me be very clear. I think the Affordable Care Act has been a modest success. Obviously the roll out was a disaster and that’s all anyone could talk about, our Republican friends could talk about. Five years from now, nobody cares about the roll out, nobody cares about a stupid website. What people care is whether human beings in this country are actually being able to go to a doctor when they need to.
There was a study some years ago at Harvard University, and what they told us is that 45,000 Americans die each year because they don’t get to a doctor when they should. And I talked to a whole lot of doctors, and everyone of them will tell you, “She walked into my office, and she was really sick. And I said ‘Why didn’t you come in here 6, 8 months ago?’ She goes ‘Well, I didn’t have any health insurance. I didn’t want any charity.’ By the time she walked into that room, it was too late.” All over the country, that is what happens.
As a nation, we have got to ask ourselves a very simple question with regard to health care. How does it happen that in this nation, we end up spending almost twice as much per person on health care as do the people in any other country yet we end up with 40 million people with no health insurance, even more, including people in this room, who are under-insured who have large co-payments and deductibles. Is that correct? All right.
And yet, at the end of that, our health care outcomes compared to other countries in terms of infant mortality, in terms of longevity are not particularly good.
And the answer is that to a very significant degree, what health care in America is about is making money for private health insurance companies. [Applause]
So I believe the Affordable Care Act is a modest step forward, but we’ve got take a bigger step and that is recognize that health care in the year 2014 must be a right of all people. I believe we should move to a Medicare for all, single payer program. [Applause]

I said a word before about education. I’ll just add a few words to that.
Education is what life is about. Education is what life is about if you’re 90 and it’s what life is about when you’re old.
Every psychologist who has studied the issue – not a debate anymore – understands that the most important formative years of a human being’s life are 0 to 4, and every psychologist who has written about the issue understands that if kids at that age get the emotional and intellectual nourishment that they need, they would do much better than if that was not the case.
And yet, despite all of that knowledge, today in New Hampshire, today in Vermont, today all over America, millions of working families are struggling to find affordable, quality child care, and they can’t do it because it’s just too expensive, and the result is that millions of kids have inadequate child care or pre-school education.
And the great disgrace is we are paying our child care workers minimum wages in many cases – low wages without benefits. What kind of priority is that when we entrust little kids’ lives to these folks and we don’t give them the training, we don’t give them the income, we don’t give them the benefits they need to make that into the kind of important career it should be. [Applause]
And I think maybe we might learn something in terms of education from countries like Germany, Denmark, Finland, Sweden. And you know what they say – and they have said it for a very long time in other countries – they have said that in a competitive global economy they understand they need the best educated workforce possible. And what they understand is that it is insane, that it is self-destructive to say to working class kids, “Well, sorry, you may be really smart. You may be really energetic. But guess what? You can’t afford to go to college. That’s the way it is. Or if you do go to college, you’re going to come out $50,000 in debt.”
Maybe we can learn something from countries all over the world who say that you will get a college education without costs regardless of what your income is. [Applause]
And just think – think of what that means to kids here in Manchester, Vermont, in Manchester, New Hampshire, and Manchesters all over the country when kids who are in the fifth or sixth grade know and have been told that if they do well in school, if they studied, they are going to be able to go to college, they are going to be able to make it into the middle-class. Just doing that can transform education for all over this country.

I want to say another word on an issue which is very troubling to me, and it’s an interesting issue because it’s brought some strange bedfellows together.
You know, we pride ourselves on being a free society. And we need a serious national conversation about what that means. What does it really mean?
Are you a free society if every telephone call that you make ends up in an NSA file? I don’t think so.
Are you living in freedom if some of your email exchanges are intercepted or there is knowledge on the part of the government about the websites that you visit?
I don’t think so, and that is why I voted against the USA Patriot Act and the re-authorization of USA Patriot Act. [Applause]
So we have obviously got to be vigilant against terrorism. It is a very serious issue. But I do not think we have to undermine the Constitution of the United States to do that.
Let me touch on – I keep saying this important issue and that. Everyone of these issues is gigantically important and we could talk about it for hours onto itself. But there’s one that sticks out having to do whether or not does the planet really survive and that is the issue of climate change.
Despite what you may see on Fox TV or in the media in general, the debate about the reality of climate change is over. The scientific community is overwhelmingly in agreement that climate change is real. It is caused significantly by human activity. That right now we are seeing devastating results of climate change in terms of floods, in terms of heat waves, in terms of forest fires, in terms of extreme weather disturbances. And what the scientists tell us is that situation will only get worse unless we boldly address the problem, significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions and move toward sustainable energy.
And I say this – I don’t mean to be overly partisan today. I am partisan, obviously. And my Republican colleagues disappoint me, to say the least, every day.
But while we can have disagreements on so many issues, it is very frightening to me – and I think to you – that you have virtually the entire Republican Party rejecting science in terms of climate change.
They don’t reject science in terms of cancer research. They don’t reject science in many, many areas. But because of the power of the fossil fuel – the oil companies, the coal companies, the gas companies – because of that power, they are willing to push aside what is the overwhelming scientific evidence.
And the truth of the matter is that if we are aggressive in reversing climate change – if the United States of America become the leader – we can have a huge impact in moving China, moving India, moving other countries.
And by the way, when we move to issues like energy efficiency and weatherization – in Vermont right now, we are weatherizing thousands of homes. I’m sure you’re doing it here in New Hampshire. And by the way, your Senator Jeanne Shaheen has been very active on this issue. And when you do these things, you cut people’s fuel bills very, very significantly. You cut greenhouse gas emissions. What else do you do? You create jobs. That’s what you do. So we should do that. [Applause]
Ah, be patient. I’m coming to the end. [Laughter]

Now, and I mean in truth, I don’t know how to juggle. You know, people say, “Why did you put this thing first and that thing second?” They’re all enormously important. They’re all about the future of America.
But I want to now get to another issue, which may be in a way supersedes everything else, and that is what for many people is not a particularly sexy issue but it is right in the heart of everything and that is campaign finance. [Applause]
Now, a few years ago, the United States Supreme Court made a decision that had people to say the least scratching their heads. And they said in the Citizens United case – and by the way, my understanding is that Citizens United is one of the hosts of the Republican event over there – that they said that corporations are people and equally important that individuals could now spend as much money as they wanted in the political process because they have the First Amendment right of freedom of speech to do that.
What is the impact of that case and what’s the impact of the recent McCutcheon that we heard a couple of weeks ago?
And here is the impact that I want you to think very, very seriously about.
Everybody in Vermont and New Hampshire, we all have different opinions about this, that and the other thing. That’s called democracy.
But I would hope in respect especially to those who fought and died to defend democracy and our way of life that there is not a difference of opinion that in the United States of America billionaires should not be able to buy elections. [Applause]
Now, let me give you a very concrete example of what I’m talking about. It’s happening, literally today, in the other side of town right here in New Hampshire.
A few weeks ago, we saw a remarkable spectacle in Las Vegas, Nevada. They have a lot of spectacles in Las Vegas but this one was really quite remarkable. And that is Sheldon Adelson, worth many, many billions of dollars, called – beckoned Republican candidates for President to come to Las Vegas to tell him what they would do for him and how they would support his agenda.
Now, I understand I’m stepping on sensitive toes here. You think that New Hampshire has the first presidential primary in the country, right? The Adelson primary is now the first primary in America, and the difference between the New Hampshire primary and the Adelson primary tells you everything you need to know about what’s happening in politics today.
In New Hampshire, candidates come and they’re Democrats and they’re Republicans and they hold town meetings and they talk to people, and people end up voting. Get one vote, and people vote for the Democratic, Republican, whatever they like. That’s called democracy.
What the Adelson primary is about – and if we don’t change it, this is the future of American politics – is a billionaire saying, “Tell me what I want to hear, and if I like what you’re telling me, I am prepared” – and remember, Adelson earned $11 billion more last year – “I’m prepared to put hundreds of millions of dollars or maybe $1 billion into your campaign. It doesn’t matter to me. I have so much money, it really doesn’t matter.”
Obama, in the last presidential elections, spent a little over $1 billion. Mitt Romney spent a hair less. Both spent over $1 billion. These guys could take $1 billion out of their pocket today, they would not notice it was gone.
So what you are looking at now is a situation where billionaires are going to control the political process, and if we do not get our act together, we are moving rapidly down the road to an oligarchic form of society where billionaires control not only the economic life of a nation but the political life as well.
And my friends, of any issue that I hope we bring people from all political persuasions – I don’t care if you’re a conservative or progressive or whatever you may be – we have got to fight to defend American democracy and not allow billionaires to take it over. [Applause]
And by the way, while it is absolutely true that the Republican and right-wing billionaires are spending a lot more money, there are Democratic billionaires spending money as well, and we’ve got to oppose that as well.
And that is why I very strongly support – I’m not much into constitutional amendments. You know, there are some people out there with 50 different constitutional amendments everyday. I’m not into that. But I do believe and I have introduced a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. [Applause]
And in my view, we need to move toward public funding of elections. [Applause]
Honest people can and do and will have differences of opinion. That’s called democracy. I don’t claim to have all the answers to everything.
But I think what we want is campaigns that are based on ideas and not simply the ability of billionaires to flood the airwaves with ugly 30 second ads.
Now, when I talk about campaign finance, people say, “Yeah, it’s an important issue.” But let me tell you why it is so important and what is going today with regard to campaign finance.
On election back in 1980, David Koch – and I’m using this just as an important example. Most of you don’t know this. But David Koch back in 1980 – one of the Koch brothers – ran for Vice President of the United States on the Libertarian Party, and he ended up out of his own pocket financing much of the campaign. And that’s all fine.
But I want to take you down a road now because I want you to understand this. I want you to understand what was in the 1980 Libertarian platform that Koch ran on and which he got 1% of the vote on, which in 1980 the ideas that he espoused were considered extremist, whacky, kooky, way out of the mainstream.
Today, the political tragedy of the time is those extremist ideas are now mainstream in the Republican Party.
And I want to give you some examples. I’m going to give you quotes from the Libertarian platform of the 1980 party Koch ran on.
“We urge the repeal of federal campaign finance laws and the immediate abolition of the despotic Federal Election Commission.” Do you understand what that means? Do you understand that two weeks ago, Clarence Thomas in a decision said exactly that, and that that is where the Republican Party today in 2014 is moving. They want to end all restrictions on campaign finance. You know what that’ll mean is that a handful of billionaires will sit in a room and say, “We’ll put $20 million into New Hampshire. Let’s put $150 million into California. And $30 million into Vermont.” And for these guys, it is a drop in the bucket.
So if you allow unlimited spending in anyway directly to candidates independent, we will certainly lose the foundation of American democracy. That is what they were talking about 34 years ago, and in fact that is what is happening today.
Here’s another plank 1980 Libertarian Party, and I quote “We favor the abolition of Medicare and Medicaid programs.” Well, they haven’t succeeded but they’re trying. If you read the Ryan budget just passed by the Republican House last week, that budget would end Medicare as we know it and move it toward a voucher type program.
In other words, what it would say is “We’re going to give you when you’re 65 or 67” – and they probably want to raise the age for Medicare eligibility anyhow – “We’re going to give you a check, and here’s a check for $7,000 or $8,000 and you can go to any private insurance company that you want.” Well, if you have cancer, that’ll last you about – hmm – one day – maybe. But that is their plan on how they want to deal with Medicare.
In terms of Medicaid and other health care programs, the Ryan budget does not end Medicaid, but it would take health insurance away from 40 million Americans over a 10 year period by cutting Medicaid by more than $1.5 trillion, and it would also end the Affordable Care Act. Remember what the Koch brothers said back in 1980.
This is also what they said, and I quote “We favor the repeal of the fraudulent, virtually bankrupt, and increasingly oppressive Social Security system. Pending that repeal, participation in Social Security should be made voluntary.” Well, many of my Republican colleagues believe just that.
Furthermore in 1980, Koch brothers Libertarian Party platform stated “We oppose all personal and corporate income taxation, including capital gains tax. We support the eventual repeal of all taxation. As an interim measure, all criminal and civil sanctions against tax evasion should be terminated immediately.”
Well, today the Republican Party does not believe in the end of all taxation. They don’t. But the recently-passed Ryan budget, passed by the Republican House, provides a $5 trillion tax break for the wealthiest people in this country and large corporations. The Ryan budget would provide an average tax break of at least $200,000 a year for millionaires.
And lastly – and again, see what’s happening today; this was talked about in 1980. Libertarian Party staked out a very clear position on the minimum wage: “We support repeal of all laws which impede the ability of any person to find employment such as minimum wage laws.” Do you understand what they’re saying? Many people don’t. They’re saying “We are not only opposed increasing the minimum wage, we want to do away with the concept of minimum wage” because our freedom-loving friends at the other end of town today believe that you should have the freedom if you’re in a high unemployment area to work for $3 an hour.
You don’t want the government coming in, and they should have the freedom to throw all of their crap into the rivers and lakes and air, pollute our society, because you don’t want to restrict them from doing that and limit their freedom. And if you’re all hungry, you have the freedom not to be able to feed your families because we don’t believe in nutrition programs. And if you’re 65 or 70 and you are sick, you have the freedom to die because we don’t believe in federal Medicare or Medicaid. [Applause]
And that is the essence of what the Koch brothers and all of their organizations believe in: Freedom for billionaires to get richer. Freedom for companies to continue polluting our nation and moving us in a disastrous way with regard to climate change. Freedom of Wall Street to continue to go about their greedy illegal ways to disrupt our entire economy. That’s their definition of freedom.
So to my mind, here’s where we are right now. I’ve touched on a lot of issues, and all of them – without exception and there are many other issues I didn’t even say a word about that are terribly important as well.
But where we are in this moment of history is pretty clear to me, and that is whether or not – and it is not easy; I’m not here to tell you it happens by snapping your finger – whether or not we can bring about a political revolution in this country which demands and urges millions and millions of working people, middle-class people, young people, old people, people who are so disgusted with the political system today – They don’t want to vote; They don’t want to go near it; They turn off their TV sets when they see the ugly ads – can we somehow bring them into the political process.
And here is the very good news – on every single issue based on every poll and I look at these polls that I have seen – that these guys – the Koch brothers and our right-wing Republican friends – are talking about, they maybe represent 10% of the American people, 15% of the American people.
You go to conservative states – go to Mississippi, go to Alabama, go to Oklahoma – stand on a street corner and say, “Do you believe that we should cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, and give tax breaks to billionaires?”, and they will laugh at you. Nobody believes that. Very few people believe that.
And what our job is to understand is that there are issues – I’m 100% pro-choice all my life; I believe in gay marriage. Vermont has led the nation on that. But we have to understand there are differences of opinions. I respect other people’s differences of opinion. But our challenge is can we breathe together – working families all over this country – to stand for an America which makes sure that every single person has at least a modest standard of living, that our kids do well, that we end the international embarrassment of having the highest rate of childhood poverty in the industrialized world, that we do well by our seniors. Can do that? I think we can.
So what the challenge is about is whether we move in that direction, bringing tens of millions of people together, getting them involved in the political process, having meetings like this all over America, having debates, having discussions, and expanding and strengthening our democracy. That’s the way I think we’ve got to go.
And then there’s another way, which the guys at the other end of town are talking about, and that is a handful of billionaires pumping hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars into campaigns, having candidates come before them and getting the litmus test that they will support the billionaire agenda.
That’s where we are in America – either we strengthen democracy or an oligarchy, and I vote for democracy. Thank you very much. [Applause]

Question:
…Why are the Democrats so passive? Laying down already, almost conceding that we’re going to lose the Senate, it’s going to be taken over by Mitch McConnell and his right-wing hacks? Why are we letting this happen? You talked about 45,000 dying every year from not being able to afford medical care. That’s 3 jumbo jets equivalent crashing every week. If 3 jets or 150 crashed a year, people would stop flying. They’d pay attention to that. Most American people don’t know there are 45,000 dead. Most American people don’t know that a guy named Bill McGuire, who ran UnitedHealthcare in Chicago, when he walked out the door took $1.8 billion with him…People don’t know these things. They’d be pissed if they did.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
Let me answer your question in two respects. Here’s what my view is that’s happening politically. I talked about the Republicans. In Vermont, you may know, we’ve had a long proud history of Republican Governors and Senators…We’ve had moderate Republicans in the Senate, in the House, and government. Those moderate Republicans today could not get into the door of today’s right-wing Republican Party. So you see, politically, the Republican Party have been moved from a kind of a center-right party to a right-wing party.
What about the Democrats? Well, if you look at the Democratic Party, look at what Harry Truman talked about in 1948. Truman, as you may recall, was considered then to be a conservative Democrat from Missouri. Conservative Democrat. Read what he has to say; there are very few Democrats who will talk in his language today. The Democratic Party has moved from a center-left party, focused on the American working class, to a centrist party which sadly – and it has to be admitted and anyone who doesn’t know it should know it – also receives a lot of corporate and big money as well.
So I agree with you. Believe we have caucuses. I’m an Independent. I caucus with the Democrats, and I rant and rave on this issue that the Democrats have got to stand with the working class of this country, and they’ve got to have the guts to take on big money.
But the other point that I would make – there are more good Democrats out there working really hard than you know. But they don’t get into the media terribly often. They’re not going to get on ABC, CBS, and NBC talking about the important issues, and that speaks to the first point that the questioner made about how do we open up the media to different points of view.
Question:
…I was so happy to hear your words on the centrality of campaign finance reform and about your amendment. But even before Citizens United was decided, we were in a mess with campaign finance, and can’t we go farther and reverse the Buckley v. Valeo decision and restore the right of the people to limit campaign funding? Also it’s not just corporations – to limit the right of wealthy individuals to control elections?
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
The answer is yes. I mean, that’s what –
Question:
But how?
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont):
That’s what public funding of elections is about. I mean, public funding of elections – people say, “Oh, my goodness, tax dollars are being used in election.” Well, I think that makes a lot more sense when we limit the amount than to have billionaires buy elections.
And what we’re talking about – and it’s hard stuff that we’ve got to figure it out. How do you create a situation where a serious candidate who has support – not everybody can jump up – can then run an election knowing that he or she has a certain amount of money – enough money to get the word out – without having to spend half his or her life raising money?
By the way, one of the other dangerous things that this Citizens United decision does – the other side of it is that the good guys have to keep up. And I will tell you – and again, it’s not great secret – in Washington, in the House, you have candidates, members of Congress not worrying about unemployment or education. They’re spending half their lives trying to raise money in order to compete. It’s a terrible, terrible situation.
