U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens. SOURCE: U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, Libya.
“Chris Stevens fell in love with the Middle East as a young Peace Corps volunteer teaching English in Morocco. He joined the Foreign Service, learned languages, won friends for America in distant places, and made other people’s hopes his own.
“In the early days of the Libyan revolution, I asked Chris to be our envoy to the rebel opposition. He arrived on a cargo ship in the port of Benghazi and began building our relationships with Libya’s revolutionaries. He risked his life to stop a tyrant, then gave his life trying to help build a better Libya. The world needs more Chris Stevenses. I spoke with his sister, Ann, this morning, and told her that he will be remembered as a hero by many nations…
“Today, many Americans are asking – indeed, I asked myself – how could this happen? How could this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a city we helped save from destruction? This question reflects just how complicated and, at times, how confounding the world can be.
“But we must be clear-eyed, even in our grief. This was an attack by a small and savage group – not the people or Government of Libya. Everywhere Chris and his team went in Libya, in a country scarred by war and tyranny, they were hailed as friends and partners. And when the attack came yesterday, Libyans stood and fought to defend our post. Some were wounded. Libyans carried Chris’ body to the hospital, and they helped rescue and lead other Americans to safety.”
“Sean Smith was an Air Force veteran. He spent 10 years as an information management officer in the State Department, he was posted at The Hague, and was in Libya on a brief temporary assignment. He was a husband to his wife Heather, with whom I spoke this morning. He was a father to two young children, Samantha and Nathan. They will grow up being proud of the service their father gave to our country, service that took him from Pretoria to Baghdad, and finally to Benghazi.
“The mission that drew Chris and Sean and their colleagues to Libya is both noble and necessary, and we and the people of Libya honor their memory by carrying it forward. This is not easy. Today, many Americans are asking – indeed, I asked myself – how could this happen? How could this happen in a country we helped liberate, in a city we helped save from destruction? This question reflects just how complicated and, at times, how confounding the world can be.”
“But let us be clear. What is happening inside Mali is augmented by the rising threat from violent extremism across the region.
“For some time, al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb and other groups have launched attacks and kidnappings from northern Mali into neighboring countries.
“Now, with a larger safe haven and increased freedom to maneuver, terrorists are seeking to extend their reach and their networks in multiple directions.
“And they are working with other violent extremists to undermine the democratic transitions underway in North Africa, as we tragically saw in Benghazi.
“This is a threat to the entire region and to the world, and most particularly, to the people in the region themselves who deserve better.
“They deserve better from their leaders and they deserve better from the international community. The United States is stepping up our counterterrorism efforts across the Maghreb and Sahel, and we’re working with the Libyan Government and other partners to find those responsible for the attack on our diplomatic post in Benghazi and bring them to justice.
“But we are also expanding our counterterrorism partnerships to help countries meet their own growing threats. We’re taking aim at the support structure of al-Qaida and its affiliates – closing safe havens, cutting off finances, countering their ideology and denying them recruits.”
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member, members of the committee, both older and new. I’m very grateful for this opportunity and I thank you very much for your patience to give me the chance to come and address these issues with you.
As both the Chairman and the Ranking Member have said, the terrorist attacks in Benghazi on September 11th, 2012 that claimed the lives of four brave Americans – Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, and Glen Doherty – are part of a broader strategic challenge to the United States and our partners in North Africa. Today, I want briefly to offer some context for this challenge, share what we’ve learned, how we are protecting our people, and where we can work together to not only honor our fallen colleagues, but continue to champion America’s interests and values.
Any clear-eyed examination of this matter must begin with this sobering fact: Since 1988, there have been 19 Accountability Review Boards investigating attacks on American diplomats and their facilities. Benghazi joins a long list of tragedies for our Department, for other agencies, and for America: hostages taken in Tehran in 1979, our Embassy and Marine barracks bombed in Beirut in 1983, Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia in 1996, our embassies in East Africa in 1998, consulate staff murdered in Jeddah in 2004, the Khost attack in 2009, and too many others. Since 1977, 65 American diplomatic personnel have been killed by terrorists.
Now of course, the list of attacks foiled, crises averted, and lives saved is even longer. We should never forget that our security professionals get it right more than 99 percent of the time, against difficult odds all over the world. That’s why, like my predecessors, I literally trust them with my life.
Let’s also remember that administrations of both parties, in partnership with Congress, have made concerted and good faith efforts to learn from these attacks and deaths to implement recommendations from the review boards, to seek the necessary resources, and to do better in protecting our people from what has become constantly evolving threats. That is the least that the men and women who serve our country deserve. It’s what, again, we are doing now with your help. As Secretary, I have no higher priority and no greater responsibility.
As I have said many times, I take responsibility, and nobody is more committed to getting this right. I am determined to leave the State Department and our country safer, stronger, and more secure.
Now, taking responsibility meant moving quickly in those first uncertain hours and days to respond to the immediate crisis, but also to further protect our people and posts in high-threat areas across the region and the world. It meant launching an independent investigation to determine exactly what happened in Benghazi and to recommend steps for improvement. And it meant intensifying our efforts to combat terrorism and figure out effective ways to support the emerging democracies in North Africa and beyond.
Let me share some of the lessons we’ve learned, the steps we’ve taken, and the work we continue to do.
First, let’s start on the night of September 11th itself and those difficult early days. I directed our response from the State Department, stayed in close contact with officials from across our government and the Libyan Government. So I saw firsthand what Ambassador Pickering and former Chairman Mike Mullen called timely and exceptional coordination; no delays in decision making, no denials of support from Washington or from our military. And I want to echo the Review Board’s praise for the valor and courage of our people on the ground, especially the security professionals in Benghazi and Tripoli. The board said the response saved American lives in real time, and it did.
The very next morning, I told the American people that heavily armed militants assaulted our compound, and I vowed to bring them to justice. And I stood with President Obama in the Rose Garden as he spoke of an act of terror.
It’s also important to recall that in that same period, we were seeing violent attacks on our embassies in Cairo, Sana’a, Tunis, Khartoum, as well as large protests outside many other posts where thousands of our diplomats serve. So I immediately ordered a review of our security posture around the world, with particular scrutiny for high-threat posts. I asked the Department of Defense to join Interagency Security Assessment Teams and to dispatch hundreds of additional Marine Security Guards. I named the first Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for High Threat Posts so missions in dangerous places get the attention they need. And we reached out to Congress to help address physical vulnerabilities, including risk from fire, and to hire additional Diplomatic Security personnel.
Second, even as we took these steps, I hurried to appoint the Accountability Review Board led by Ambassador Pickering and Admiral Mullen so we could more fully understand from objective, independent examination what went wrong and how to fix it.
I have accepted every one of their recommendations. I asked the Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources to lead a task force to ensure that all 29 of them are implemented quickly and completely, as well as pursuing additional steps above and beyond the recommendations.
I also pledged in my letter to you last month that implementation would begin, and it has. Our task force started by translating the recommendations into 64 specific action items. They were assigned to bureaus and offices with clear timelines for completion. Eighty-five percent are now on track to be completed by the end of March; a number are already completed. And we will use this opportunity to take a top-to-bottom look and rethink how we make decisions on where, when and whether people operate in high-threat areas, and then how we respond to threats and crises.
We are initiating an annual High Threat Post Review chaired by the Secretary of State, and ongoing reviews by the Deputy Secretaries, to ensure that pivotal questions about security do reach the highest levels. We will regularize protocols for sharing information with Congress. These are designed to increase the safety of our diplomats and development experts and reduce the chances of another Benghazi happening again.
We’ve also been moving forward on a third front: addressing the broader strategic challenge in North Africa and the wider region, because, after all, Benghazi did not happen in a vacuum. The Arab revolutions have scrambled power dynamics and shattered security forces across the region. Instability in Mali has created an expanding safe haven for terrorists who look to extend their influence and plot further attacks of the kind we saw just last week in Algeria.
And let me offer our deepest condolences to the families of the Americans and all the people from many nations who were killed and injured in that recent hostage crisis. We are in close touch with the Government of Algeria. We stand ready to provide assistance. We are seeking to gain a fuller understanding of what took place so we can work together with Algerians and others to prevent such terrorist attacks in the future.
Concerns about terrorism and instability in North Africa are of course not new. They have been a top priority for the entire Administration’s national security team. But we have been facing a rapidly changing threat environment, and we have had to keep working at ways to increase pressure on al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb and the other terrorist groups in the region.
In the first hours and days, I conferred with leaders – the President of Libya, Foreign Ministers of Tunisia and Morocco – and then I had a series of meetings at the United Nations General Assembly where there was a special meeting focused on Mali and the Sahel. In October, I flew to Algeria to discuss the fight against AQIM. In November, I sent Deputy Secretary Bill Burns to follow up in Algiers. And then in December, in my stead, he co-chaired an organization we started to respond to some of these threats: the Global Counterterrorism Forum, which was meeting in Abu Dhabi, as well as a meeting in Tunis of leaders working to build new democracies and reform security services.
We have focused on targeting al-Qaida’s syndicate of terror – closing safe havens, cutting off finances, countering extremist ideology, slowing the flow of new recruits. And we continue to hunt the terrorists responsible for the attacks in Benghazi and are determined to bring them to justice. We are using our diplomatic and economic tools to support these emerging democracies and to strengthen security forces and help provide a path away from extremism.
But let me underscore the importance of the United States continuing to lead in the Middle East, in North Africa, and around the world. We’ve come a long way in the past four years, and we cannot afford to retreat now. When America is absent, especially from unstable environments, there are consequences. Extremism takes root; our interests suffer; our security at home is threatened.
That’s why I sent Chris Stevens to Benghazi in the first place. Nobody knew the dangers better than Chris, first during the revolution, then during the transition. A weak Libyan Government, marauding militias, terrorist groups; a bomb exploded in the parking lot of his hotel, but he did not waver. Because he understood it was critical for America to be represented there at that time.
Our men and women who serve overseas understand that we accept a level of risk to protect the country we love. And they represent the best traditions of a bold and generous nation. They cannot work in bunkers and do their jobs. So it is our responsibility to make sure they have the resources they need, and to do everything we can to reduce the risks.
For me, this is not just a matter of policy. It’s personal. I stood next to President Obama as the Marines carried those flag-draped caskets off the plane at Andrews. I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, the sisters and brothers, the sons and daughters, and the wives left alone to raise their children.
It has been one of the great honors of my life to lead the men and women of the State Department and USAID. Nearly 70,000 serving here in Washington; more than 270 posts around the world. They get up and go to work every day, often in difficult and dangerous circumstances, because they believe, as we believe, the United States is the most extraordinary force for peace and progress the world has ever known.
And when we suffer tragedies overseas, as we have, the number of Americans applying to the Foreign Service actually increases. That tells us everything we need to know about what kind of patriots I’m talking about. They do ask what they can do for their country, and America is stronger for it.
So today, after four years in this job, traveling nearly a million miles, visiting 112 countries, my faith in our country and our future is stronger than ever. Every time that blue and white airplane carrying the words “United States of America” touches down in some far-off capital, I feel again the honor it is to represent the world’s indispensible nation. And I am confident that, with your help, we will keep the United States safe, strong, and exceptional.
So I want to thank this committee for your partnership and your support of diplomats and development experts. You know the importance of the work they do day in and day out. You know that America’s values and vital national security interests are at stake. And I appreciate what Ranking Member Corker just said: It is absolutely critical that this committee and the State Department, with your new Secretary and former Chairman, work together to really understand and address the resources, support, and changes that are needed to face what are increasingly complex threats.
I know you share my sense of responsibility and urgency, and while we all may not agree on everything, let’s stay focused on what really matters: protecting our people and the country we love. And thank you for the support you personally have given to me over the last four years.
I now would be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you. Thank you. Well, just standing here looking out at all of you, the people I have been honored to serve and lead and work with over the last four years, is an incredible experience.
When I came into this building as the Secretary of State four years ago and received such a warm welcome, I knew there was something really special about this place, and that having the honor to lead the State Department and USAID would be unique and singular, exciting and challenging. It has been all of those things and so much more. I cannot fully express how grateful I am to those with whom I have spent many hours here in Washington, around the world, and in airplanes.
But I’m proud of the work we’ve done to elevate diplomacy and development, to serve the nation we all love, to understand the challenges, the threats, and the opportunities that the United States faces, and to work with all our heart and all of our might to make sure that America is secure, that our interests are promoted, and our values are respected. As I look back over these past four years, I am very proud of the work we have done together.
Of course, we live in very complex and even dangerous times, as we saw again just today at our Embassy in Ankara, where we were attacked and lost one of our Foreign Service nationals and others injured. But I spoke with the Ambassador and the team there, I spoke with my Turkish counterpart, and I told them how much we valued their commitment and their sacrifice.
I know that the world we are trying to help bring into being in the 21st century will have many difficult days, but I am more optimistic today than I was when I stood here four years ago, because I have seen, day after day, the many contributions that our diplomats and development experts are making to help ensure that this century provides the kind of peace, progress, and prosperity that not just the United States, but the entire world, especially young people, so richly deserve. I am very proud to have been Secretary of State.
I will miss you. I will probably be dialing Ops just to talk. I will wonder what you all are doing, because I know that because of your efforts day after day, we are making a real difference. But I leave this Department confident – confident about the direction we have set, confident that the process of the QDDR, which we started for the first time, has enabled us to ask hard questions about what we do, how we do it, and whether we can do it even better. Because State and AID have to always be learning organizations. We owe it to ourselves, we owe it to the President, we owe it to the American people. And so I will be an advocate from outside for the work that you continue to do here and at AID.
So it’s been quite a challenging week saying goodbye to so many people and knowing that I will not have the opportunity to continue being part of this amazing team. But I am so grateful that we’ve had a chance to contribute in each of our ways to making our country and our world stronger, safer, fairer, and better.
Those of you who are staying, as many of you will, please know that I hope you will redouble your efforts to do all that you can to demonstrate unequivocally why diplomacy and development are right up there with defense; how, when we think about who we are as Americans, it’s because we are united and committed across our government to do whatever is required to fulfill the missions we have assumed as public officials and public servants.
So next week, I would expect that all of you will be as focused and dedicated for Secretary Kerry as you have been for me, and that you will continue to serve President Obama and our nation with the same level of professionalism and commitment that I have seen firsthand.
On a personal basis, let me wish all of you the very best, whether you’ve been here a week or 30 or even 40 years, Pat. Let me give you the very best wishes that I can, because I’m proud to have been a part of you. I leave thinking of the nearly 70,000 people that I was honored to serve and lead as part of a huge extended family. And I hope that you will continue to make yourselves, make me, and make our country proud.
Thank you all, and God bless you.
# # #


Good afternoon.
I want to thank the United Nations for hosting today’s events and putting the challenge of gender equality front and center on the international agenda.
I’m especially pleased to have so many leaders here from the private sector standing shoulder to shoulder with advocates who’ve worked tirelessly for equality for decades.
20 years ago, this was a lonelier struggle.
Today, we mark the progress that’s been made in the two decades since the international community gathered in Beijing and declared with one voice that human rights are women’s rights and women’s rights are human rights.
And because of advances in health, education, and legal protections, we can say that there has never been a better time in history to be born female.
Yet, as the comprehensive new report published by the Clinton Foundation and the Gates Foundation makes clear, despite all this progress, when it comes to the full participation of women and girls we’re just not there yet.
As I said today, this remains the great unfinished business of the 21st century.
And my passion for this fight burns as brightly today as it did 20 years ago.
I want to comment on a matter in the news today regarding Iran.
The President and his team are in the midst of intense negotiations. Their goal is a diplomatic solution that would close off Iran’s pathways to a nuclear bomb and give us unprecedented access and insight into Iran’s nuclear program.
Now, reasonable people can disagree about what exactly it will take to accomplish this objective, and we all must judge any final agreement on its merits.
But the recent letter from Republican Senators was out of step with the best traditions of American leadership, and one has to ask what was the purpose of this letter.
There appears to be two logical answers. Either these Senators were trying to be helpful to the Iranians or harmful to the Commander-in-Chief in the midst of high stakes international diplomacy. Either answer does discredit to the letter’s signatories.
Now, I would be pleased to talk more about this important matter, but I know there have been questions about my emails so I want to address that directly and then I will take a few questions from you.
There are four things that I want the public to know.
First, when I got to work as Secretary of State, I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department, because I thought it would be easier to carry one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.
Looking back, it would have been better if I’d simply used a second email account and carried a second phone, but at the time this didn’t seem like an issue.
Second, the vast majority of my work emails went to government employees at their government addresses, which meant they were captured and preserved immediately on the system at the State Department.
Third, after I left office, the State Department asked former Secretaries of State for our assistance in providing copies of work-related emails from our personal accounts.
I responded right away and provided all my emails that could possibly be work-related, which totaled roughly 55,000 printed pages even though I knew the State Department already had the vast majority of them.
We went through a thorough process to identify all of my work-related emails and delivered them to the State Department.
At the end, I chose not to keep my private personal emails – emails about planning Chelsea’s wedding or my mother’s funeral arrangements or condolence notes to friends as well as yoga routines, family vacations, the other things you’d typically find in inboxes.
No one wants their personal emails made public and I think most people understand that and respect that privacy.
Fourth, I took the unprecedented step of asking the State Department to make all my work-related emails public for everyone to see.
I am very proud at the work that I and my colleagues and our public servants at the department did during my four years as Secretary of State. And I look forward to people being able to see that for themselves.
Again, looking back it would have been better for me to use two separate phones and two email accounts. I thought using one device would be simpler and obviously it hasn’t worked out that way.
Now, I’m happy to take a few questions.

…If you were a man today, would all this fuss be made?
As I said, I saw it as a matter of convenience and it was allowed. Others had done it. According to the State Department, which recently said Secretary Kerry was the first Secretary of State to rely primarily on a state.gov email account.
And when I got there, I wanted to just use one device for both personal and work emails instead of two. It was allowed. And as I said, it was for convenience. And it was my practice to communicate with State Department and other government officials on their .gov accounts so those emails would be automatically saved in the State Department system to meet record-keeping requirements. And that is indeed what happened.
And I heard just a little while ago the State Department announced they would begin to post some of my emails, which I’m very glad to hear because I want it all out there.
And secondly, could you answer the questions that have been raised about foreign contributions from Middle Eastern countries like Saudi Arabia that abuse women or permit violence against women to the family foundation and whether that disturbs you as you are rightly celebrating 20 years of leadership on this issue?
I’ll give you some of the background.
In going through the emails, there were over 60,000 in total sent and received. About half were work-related and went to the State Department, and about half were personal that were not in any way related to my work.
I had no reason to save them but that was my decision because the federal guidelines are clear and the State Department request was clear for any government employee, it is that government employee’s responsibility to determine what’s personal and what’s work-related.
I am very confident in the process that we conducted and the emails that were produced. And I feel like once the American public begins to see the emails, they will have an unprecedented insight into a high government official’s daily communication, which I think will be quite interesting.
With respect to the foundation, I am very proud of the work the foundation does. I am very proud of the hundred of thousands of people who support the work of the foundation and the results that have been achieved for people here at home and around the world.
And I think that we are very clear about where we stand – certainly where I stand – on all of these issues. There can’t be any mistake about my passion concerning women’s rights here at home and around the world.
And I think that people who want to support the foundation know full well what it is we stand for and what we’re working on.

And I have to add even if I had two devices, which is obviously permitted; many people do that, you would still have to put the responsibility where it belongs, which is on the official.
So I did it for convenience and I now looking back think that it might have been smarter to have those two devices from the very beginning.
But out of an abundance of caution and care, you know, we wanted to send that message unequivocally. That is the responsibility of the individual and I have fulfilled that responsibility, and I have no doubt that we’ve done exactly what we should have done.
When the search was conducted, we were asking that any email be identified and preserved that could potentially be federal records, and that’s exactly what we did. And we went, as I said, beyond that, and the process produced over 30,000, you know, work emails. And I think that we have more than met the request from the State Department.
The server contains personal communications from my husband and me and I believe that I have met all of my responsibilities and the server will remain private.
And the State Department will be able over time to release all of the records that were provided.
And then separately, will this have any bearing or effect on your timing or decision about whether or not you run for President? Thank you.
So I think that the use of that server, which started with my husband certainly, proved to be effective and secure.
Now, with respect to any sort of future issues, look, I trust the American people to make their decisions about political and public matters. And I feel I’ve taken unprecedented steps to provide these work-related emails. They’re going to be in the public domain. And I think that Americans will find that interesting and I look forward to having a discussion about that.
And what do you think about this Republican idea of having an independent third party come in and examine your emails?
So even if you have a work-related device with a work-related .gov account, you choose what goes on that. That’s the way our system works.
And so we trust and count on the judgment of thousands – maybe millions – of people to make those decisions, and I feel that I did that and even more – that I went above and beyond what I was requested to do. And again, those will be out in the public domain and people will be able to judge for themselves.
Why did you not do that? Why did you not go along with State Department rules until two years after you left office?
And also, the President of the United States said he was unaware that you had this unusual email arrangement. The White House Counsel’s office says that you never approved this arrangement through them. Why did you not do that? Why do you apparently caught the White House by surprise?
…Does all of this affect your decision in any way on whether or not to run for President?
First, the laws and regulations in effect when I was Secretary of State allowed me to use my email for work. That is undisputed.
Secondly, under the Federal Records Act, records are defined as reported information regardless of its form or characteristics.
And in meeting the record-keeping obligations, it was my practice to email government officials on their state or other .gov accounts so that the emails were immediately captured and preserved.
Now, there are different rules governing the White House than there are governing the rest of the executive branch. And in order to address the requirements I was under, I did exactly what I have said. I emailed two people and I not only knew – I expected that then to be captured in the State Department or any other government agency that I was emailing to at a .gov account.
What happened in late summer, early fall is that the State Department sent a letter to former Secretaries of State, not just me, asking for some assistance in providing any work-related emails that might be on the personal email.
And what I did was to direct, you know, my counsel to conduct a thorough investigation and to err on the side of providing anything that could be connected to work. They did that. That was my obligation. I fully fulfilled it and then I took the unprecedented step of saying, “Go ahead and release them and let people see them.”
At the end of the process.
Thank you. Thank you.

…It’s also essential that we strengthen families and communities, and that means we have to finally once and for all fix our immigration system.
This is a family issue. It’s an economic issue too. But it is at heart a family issue.
And if we claim that we are for families, we have to pull together and resolve the outstanding issues around our broken immigration system.
The American people support comprehensive immigration reform not just because it’s the right thing to do – and it is – but because they know it strengthens families, strengthens our economy, and strengthens our country.
That’s why we can’t wait any longer. We can’t wait any longer for a path to full and equal citizenship.
Now this is where I differ with everybody on the Republican side.
Make no mistakes. Today, not a single Republican candidate announced or potential is clearly and consistently supporting a path to citizenship. Not one.
When they talk about legal status, that is code for second-class status.
And we should never forget who this debate is about and you’re going to meet some of them in just a minute – people who work hard, who love this country, who pay taxes to it, and want nothing more than to build a good future for themselves and their children.
We’re talking about the young people at this table. They are Dreamers, and much more than the name, they are kids that any parent or grandparent would be proud of.
And I don’t understand how anyone can look at these young people and think we should break up more families or turn away more hard workers with talent to help us build the kind of country we all want to see.
So I will fight for comprehensive immigration reform and a path to citizenship for you and for your families across our country.
I will fight to stop partisan attacks on the executive actions that would put Dreamers, including those with us today, at risk of deportation.
And if Congress continues to refuse to act, as President, I would do everything possible under the law to go even further.
There are more people – like many parents of Dreamers and others – with deep ties and contributions to our communities who deserve a chance to stay and I will fight for them.
The law currently allows for sympathetic cases to be reviewed but right now most of these cases have no way to get a real hearing. Therefore, we should put in place a simple, straightforward accessible way for parents of Dreamers and others with a history of service and contribution to their communities to make their case and to be eligible for the same deferred action as their children.
But that’s just the beginning. There’s much more to do to expand and enhance protections for families and communities, to reform immigration enforcement and detention practices so they’re more humane, more targeted, and more effective, and to keep building the pressure and support for comprehensive reform.
You know, on a personal basis, the first time I ever met anyone who was in our country working was when I was about 12-years-old as I recall. And through my church, I was recruited along with some of the girls in our Sunday school class to serve as babysitters on Saturday for the small children so that the older children can join their parents in the fields because believe it or not when I was growing up in the Chicago area it was farm fields as far as the eye could see and the migrant immigrant labor would come up through Texas, up through the Midwest, up through Chicago, then up to Michigan. And we were asked to try to help out.
And I remember going out to the camp where the families lived and taking care of the little kids while kids my age were out doing really hard work.
And what stuck in my mind was how at the end of the day, there was a long road from the camp that went out to a dirt road in the middle of the field and the bus that had the workers from the field on it that came back in around 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. in the afternoon stopped and let off the parents and the older brothers and sisters and these little kids started running down that path to see their moms and their dads and their big brothers and sisters. And they were all scooped up by these really, really, really tired people.
And I just watched this and I thought, “They’re just like me and my brothers”, you know, when my dad comes home from work and we go out there to see him after he’s come back from his day of doing what he has to do to help support us. I’ve never gotten that experience or that image out of my mind.
And for me, this is about what kind of people we all are and what kind of country we have.
And I am absolutely convinced this is in our economic interest, it’s in the interests of our values, and it’s even in the interests of our long-term security as a nation.
So you know where I stand and there can be no question about it because I will do everything I can as President and during this campaign to make this case.
I know there are people who disagree with me but I want them to have a conversation with me because the facts are really clear.
You know, we know how much people who are working hard contribute to our economy both in what they buy and in what they pay in taxes.
In fact in New York, which I know a little bit about because I represented it for eight years and I live there now, our undocumented workers in New York pay more in taxes than some of the biggest corporations in New York.
So I’m ready to have this discussion with anybody, anywhere, anytime…
…I think it’s so important that we continue to try to change the laws comprehensively. But as I have said numerous times, I support the President’s actions in the face of – I was personally very disappointed that when I was a Senator for eight years we had a few chances to try to do more for Dreamers, do more for comprehensive immigration reform, and we were not successful.
And then when I was Secretary of State, I was very pleased that there was a bipartisan agreement in the Senate for comprehensive immigration reform. And it was such a good signal that Democrats and Republicans could work together, could solve a difficult problem, could put aside partisan differences.
The Senate passed it and the House of Representatives would never take it up. And I think it would have passed if they had taken it up. But I think that the leadership in the House decided that politically they didn’t want to do that because they have people who are strongly opposed to comprehensive immigration reform.
But I think we just have to keep working on it, and that’s why your stories are so important because we can’t look at it as though it’s some kind of abstraction. It’s real people’s lives and so many people who have made contributions, who have worked hard in school, who have started businesses, who have raised their children here.
And as you point out in your family, you have a brother who’s a U.S. citizen. So we have a lot of these blended families and I want to do more to make sure that DACA and DAPA and all of the change that have occurred continue and even expand. I would like to try to do more on behalf of the parents of Dreamers who are not necessarily included.
But the best way is to get to comprehensive immigration reform in our Congress and try to resolve all of this.
…I think your example illustrates the difficulties of these rules that are applied to everybody under every circumstance without looking at the underlying situation.
And you have a sister who’s a citizen, you have a father who’s now a legal permanent resident. You came here at seven months and you have done extremely well with your education and you’re obviously a very committed young person. And your mother who kept the family going as moms do would have to leave for a three to 10 year period in order to be able to petition for re-entry and therefore be determined as legal.
That’s why I have promoted ever since we’ve been having this debate going back when I was in the Senate a comprehensive immigration reform program similar to what the Senate passed on a bipartisan basis where the people who’ve been here and the people who have as your family has contributed and worked hard, you have to pay a fine. We want you to learn English, which is not a problem for anyone around this table. And we would want you to get in line to get a path to citizenship. But you would be no longer at risk of getting deported and you wouldn’t have to leave the country for three to 10 years in order to be able then to try to come back in.
So I think there – there’s agreement among the people who supported the bipartisan bill in the Senate even though some of them are paying a political price for it right now, nevertheless, it was the right thing when they did it. It’s still the right thing.
Because we have gained so much from people who like your families have come here and worked hard and made a contribution.
…It shows how difficult it is in so many families to be able to figure out what to do.
I think that reunification should be one of our goals in comprehensive immigration reform because you know we have attempted to deal with this challenge for years now and in the absence of actually finally passing comprehensive immigration reform a lot of families have been broken up.
And that’s just really so painful for people who live through it but even for those of us on the outside looking at it to even imagine what that must be like.
And that’s why I want to do everything we can to defend the President’s executive orders because I think they were certainly within his authority constitutionally. Legally, they were based on precedent that I certainly believe is adequate.
And then still try to go further and deal with some of these other issues like the reunification of families that were here and that have been split up since the last 8, 10, 12 years.
Well, it will certainly be among my first initiatives. I can’t sitting here today predict what will be happening.
I know that happened to President Obama when he was elected and found out we were falling into an economic abyss. And I think he deserves a lot of credit for restabilizing our situation and getting us back on the economic upswing.
But among the priorities that I would be advocating for in the beginning would be comprehensive immigration reform.
And one of the reasons for that – in addition to everything we’ve discussed – is as Secretary of State, I saw what happens to countries that establish a second-class status for people. They do not feel that they belong or that they have any allegiance to the country in which they live and work because they’re never fully accepted.
That is a recipe for divisiveness and even for disintegration.
And therefore, my view strongly is that we are a nation of immigrants, we’ve assimilated tens and tens of millions of people over the course of our history.
We have 11, 12 million people right now who are undocumented, the vast majority of whom have proven that they want to be a citizen of this country and we should put them on that path.
And those who say, “Oh yeah, we can do reform but not a path to citizenship” would be fundamentally undermining what has made America unique – the way we have assimilated people, the way people who come here feel so loyal, the contributions they make.
So this is not just in my view the right thing to do for America.
If you compare us to other countries that did not take that step, you can see what it’s done to them, and I don’t want to go there. So I very firmly support a path to citizenship in the context of immigration reform.
…I think it’s very short-sighted of us not to legalize students who graduate from college and can use their skills to make a good life for themselves but also to give back.
We have thousands and thousands of foreign students come to our country every year, and they get a great education in our colleges and universities, and then a lot of them stay.
Well, I want you to be a doctor if that’s what you want to be. I mean, you’ve come up through our system. You’ve worked hard. I mean, you’ve done exceptionally well.
So I think this is a particular fix – in addition to all the other fixes that we’ve been talking about.
You know, I read an article recently about a group of young undocumented men who were really interested in technology and they entered a contest against kids from the best schools and companies and they won.
And so you have four kids who beat the best of the best and they couldn’t do anything because they were undocumented.
And I’m sitting there thinking, “What is wrong with this picture?”
We are in a global competition and I intend for us to win in, and I’m not about to let anybody who can make a contribution to our economy and our society get thrown away.
So from my perspective, we need to fix that, we need to remove the fear, and we need to make sure that we give every child a chance to do the best that he or she can…
I want to reiterate my strong support for the President’s executive actions because he had to act in the face of inaction that was not on the merits but politically motivated for partisan reasons, which I think is not the way we should be solving our problems in our country, in our Congress or anywhere else…
And I want to get back to good old problem-solving, and this is one of the problems we have to solve together. So I pledge to you I will do everything I possibly can to make this an issue in the campaign but more importantly when I’m President to put it on the top of my priority list…

So I think that most Americans understand that the deck is stacked for those at the top and I’m running a campaign that is very clearly stating we want to reshuffle that deck. We want to get back to having more opportunities for more people so that they can make more out of their own lives. And I think that’s exactly what America is looking for.
When you’re in the public eye, when you’re in an official position, I think you do have to work to make sure you’re not caught in a bubble and you only hear from a certain small group of people. And I’m going to keep talking to my old friends whoever they are.
And to follow up on the questions about the speeches, was there conflict of interest in your giving paid speeches into the run-up of your announcement that you’re running for President?
And the answer to the first is I have said repeatedly I want those emails out. Nobody has a bigger interest in getting them released than I do.
I respect the State Department. They have their process that they do for everybody not just for me. But anything that they might do to expedite that process I heartedly support.
You know, I want the American people to learn as much as we can about the work that I did with our diplomats and our development experts because I think it will show how hard we worked and what we did for our country during the time that I was Secretary of State where I worked extremely hard on behalf of our values and our interests and our security, and the emails are part of that.
So I have said publicly, I’m repeating it here in front of all of you today, I want them out as soon as they can get out.
…40 years after Barbara Jordan fought to extend the Voting Rights Act, its heart has been ripped out.
And I wish we could hear her speak up for the student who has to wait hours for his or her right to vote, for the grandmother who’s turned away from the polls because her driver’s license expired, for the father who’s done his time and paid his debt to society but still hasn’t gotten his rights back.
Now, we know unfortunately Barbara isn’t here to speak up for them and so many others but we are and we have a responsibility to say clearly and directly what’s really going on in our country.
Because what is happening is a sweeping effort to disempower and disenfranchise people of color, poor people, and young people from one end of our country to the other.
Because since the Supreme Court eviscerated a key provision of the Voting Rights Act in 2013, many of the states that previously faced special scrutiny because of a history of racial discrimination have proposed and passed new laws that make it harder than ever to vote.
North Carolina passed a bill that went after pretty much anything that makes voting more convenient or more accessible – early voting, same day registration, the ability of county election officials to even extend voting hours to accommodate long lines.
Now, what possible reason could there be to end pre-registration for 16 and and 17-year olds and eliminate voter outreach in high schools?
We should be doing everything we can to get our young people more engaged in democracy not less.
In fact, I’d say it is a cruel irony but no coincidence that millennials – the most diverse, tolerant, and inclusive generation in American history – are now facing so much exclusion.
And we need look no further than right here in Texas.
You all know this far better than I but if you want to vote in this state, you can use a concealed weapon permit as a valid form of identification. But a valid student ID isn’t good enough?
Now, Crystal Watson [sp] found out the hard way. She grew up in Louisiana but came to Marshall, Texas to attend Wiley College.
And Crystal takes her responsibilities as a citizen so seriously that not only did she register to vote in Texas where she was living and would be for a number of years, she even became a deputy registrar to help other people vote as well.
But this past year when she showed up at her local polling place with a Wiley College ID, she was turned away.
Experts estimate that hundreds of thousands of registered voters in Texas may well face similar situations.
And while high profile state laws like those in Texas and North Carolina get most of the attention, many of the worst offenses against the right to vote actually happened below the radar.
Like when authorities shift poll locations and election dates.
Or scrap language assistance for non-English speaking citizens – something Barbara Jordan fought so hard to provide.
Without the pre-clearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act, no one outside the local community is likely ever to hear about these abuses let alone have a chance to challenge them and end them.
Now, it’s not a surprise for you to hear that studies and everyday experiences confirm that minority voters are more likely than white voters to wait in long lines at polling places.
They are also far more likely to vote in polling places with insufficient numbers of voting machines.
In South Carolina, for example, there’s supposed to be one machine for every 250 voters. But in minority areas, that rule is just often overlooked.
In Richland County, nearly 90% of the precincts fail to meet the standard required by law in 2012. Instead of 250 voters per machine in one precinct, it was over 430 voters per machine. So not surprisingly, people trying to cast a ballot there face massive delays.
Now, there are many fair-minded, well-intentioned election officials and state legislators all over our country.
But this kind of disparity that I just mentioned does not happen by accident.
Now, some of you may have heard me and my husband say one of our favorite sayings from Arkansas. Of course, I learned it from him. “If you find a turtle by a fence post, it did not get there on its own.”
Well, with all of these problems with voting just didn’t happen by accident.
And it is just wrong. It’s wrong to try to prevent, undermine, inhibit Americans’ rights to vote.
It’s counter to the values we share and in a time when so many Americans have lost trust in our political system, it’s the opposite of what we should be doing in our country.
This is the greatest, longest-lasting democracy in the history of the world. We should be clearing the way for more people to vote not putting up every roadblock anyone can imagine.
Yet, unfortunately today, there are people who offer themselves to be leaders whose actions have undercut this fundamental American principle.
Here in Texas, former Gov. Rick Perry signed a law that a federal court said was actually written with the purpose of discriminating against minority voters.
He applauded when the Voting Rights Act was gutted and said the lost protections were outdated and unnecessary.
But Gov. Perry is hardly alone in his crusade against voting rights.
In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker cut back early voting and signed legislation that would make it harder for college students to vote.
In New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie vetoed legislation to extend early voting.
And in Florida, when Jeb Bush was governor, state authorities conducted a deeply flawed purge of voters before the presidential election in 2000.
Thankfully in 2004 a plan to purge even more voters was headed off.
So today, Republicans are systematically and deliberately trying to stop millions of American citizens from voting.
What part of democracy are they afraid of?
I believe every citizen has the right to vote and I believe we should do everything we can to make it easier for every citizen to vote.
I call on Republicans at all levels of government with all manner of ambition to stop fear mongering about a phantom epidemic of election fraud and start explaining about why they’re so scared of letting citizens have their say.
Now, yes, this is about democracy, but it’s also about dignity, about the ability to stand up and say, “Yes, I am a citizen. I am an American. My voice counts.”
And no matter where you come from or what you look like or how much money you have, that means something. In fact, it means a lot.
I learned those lessons right here in Texas, registering voters in south Texas down in the valley in 1972.
Some of the people I met were understandably a little wary of a girl from Chicago who didn’t speak a word of Spanish but they wanted to vote. They were citizens. They knew they had a right to be heard. They wanted to exercise all of the rights and responsibilities that citizenship conveys.
That’s what should matter because when those rights are denied to anyone, we’re all the worse for it.
It doesn’t just hold back the aspirations of individual citizens. It holds back our entire country.
That’s why as a Senator, I championed a bill called the Count Every Vote Act.
If it had become law, it would have made Election Day a federal holiday and mandated early voting opportunities.
Deceiving voters including by sending fliers into minority neighborhoods with false voting time and places would have become a federal crime.
And many Americans with criminal convictions who’d paid their debts to society would have finally gotten their voting rights back.
Well, today with the damage to the Voting Rights Act so severe, the need for action is even more urgent.
First, Congress should move quickly to pass legislation to repair that damage and restore the full protections that American voters need and deserve.
I was serving in the Senate in 2006. We voted 98 to 0 to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act after an exhaustive process.
There had been more than 20 hearings in both the House and Senate judiciary committees. There had be testimonies from so many expert witnesses, investigative reports documenting continuing discrimination in covered jurisdictions.
There was more than 15,000 pages of legislative record.
Now, that is how the system is supposed to work. You gather the evidence. You weight it and you decide, and we did 98 to 0.
We put principle ahead of politics. That’s what Congress needs to do again.
Second, we should implement the recommendations of the bipartisan presidential commission to improve voting.
That commission was chaired by President Obama’s campaign lawyer and by Gov. Mitt Romney’s campaign lawyer.
And they actually agreed, and they set forth common sense reforms including expanding early absentee and mail voting, providing online voter registration, establishing the principle that no one should ever have to wait more than 30 minutes to cast your vote.
Third, we should set a standard across our country of at least 20 days of early in-person voting everywhere including opportunities for weekend and evening voting.
If families coming out of church on Sunday are inspired to vote, they should be free to do just that.
And we know that early in-person voting will reduce those long lines and give more citizens a chance to participate, especially those who have work or family obligations that make it difficult to get to the polls on election day. It’s not just convenient, it’s also more secure, more reliable, and more affordable than absentee voting.
So let’s get this done.
And I believe we should go even further to strengthen voting rights in America.
So today, I’m calling for universal, automatic voter registration.
Every citizen in every state in the union, everyone, every young man or young woman should be automatically registered to vote when they turn 18 unless they actively choose to opt out but I think this would have a profound impact on our elections, on our democracy.
Between a quarter and a third of all eligible Americans remain unregistered and therefore unable to vote, and we should modernize our entire approach to registration.
The system we have is a relic from an earlier age that relies on a blizzard of paper records. It’s full of errors.
In fact, we can do better by making sure registration rolls are secure, up-to-date and complete so when you move your registration should move with you.
If you’re an eligible voter and want to be registered, you should be a registered voter.
Now, Oregon is already leading the way, modernizing its system, and the rest of the country should follow.
The technology is here. States have already a lot of the data that is needed. It’s just a matter of synching and streamlining.
Now, all of these reforms, from expanded early voting to modernized registration, are common sense ways to strengthen our democracy.
But I’ll be candid here. None of them will come easily. It’s going to take leadership at many levels.
Now more than ever, we need our citizens to actually get out and vote for people who want to hear what’s on their minds.
We need more activists working to expose abuses, educate Americans about their rights, and hold authorities accountable for protecting them.
Some of the worst provisions in recent laws have been blocked or delayed by tireless advocates raising the alarm and filing legal challenges but they can’t do it alone.
We need more grassroots mobilization efforts like the Moral Monday Movement in North Carolina to build momentum for reform.
We need more justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen’s right to vote.
I mean, the principle underlying our constitution, which we had to fight for a long time to make apply to everybody, one person one vote.
And we need a Supreme Court that cares more about protecting the right to vote of a person than the right to buy an election of a corporation.
But of course, you know what we really need? We need more elected leaders from Houston to Austin to Washington who will follow in the footsteps of Barbara Jordan and who will fight everyday for the rights and opportunities of everyday Americans, not just those at the top of the ladder.
And we need to remember that progress is built on common ground not scorched Earth.
When I traveled around as your Secretary of State, one of the most frequent questions I was asked was “How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard in that campaign?”
People were genuinely amazed, which I suppose was understandable considering that in many places when you lose an election or you oppose somebody who wins you could get imprisoned, exiled, or even killed not asked to be Secretary of State.
And it’s true. I was surprised when the President asked me to serve. But he made that offer and I accepted it for the same reason – we both love our country.
So my friends, here at this historic institution, just let us remember America was built by people who knew that our common interests was more important than our self-interest. They were fearless in pursuit of a stronger, freer, fairer nation.
As Barbara Jordan famously reminded us, when the Constitution was first written, it left most of us here out.
But generations of Americans fought and marched and organized and prayed to expand the circle of freedom and opportunity. They never gave up and they never backed down.
And nearly a century ago on this very day, after years of struggle, Congress finally passed the 19th Amendment to give women a right to vote in the United States.
So that is the story of progress. Courageous men and women, expanding rights not restricting them.
And today, we refuse – we refuse – to allow our country and this generation of leaders to slow or reverse America’s long march toward a more perfect union.
We owe it to our children and our grandchildren to fight just as hard as those who came before us, to march just as far, to organize just as well, to speak out just as loudly and to vote every chance we get for the kind of future we want.
That’s what Barbara Jordan would do. That’s what we should do in honor of her.
Thank you and may God bless you.

…It is wonderful to be here with all of you, to be in New York with my family, with so many friends, including so many New Yorkers who gave me the honor of serving them in the Senate for eight years, to be right across the water from the headquarters of the United Nations where I represented our country many times, to be here in this beautiful park dedicated to Franklin Roosevelt’s enduring vision of America – the nation we want to be and in a place with absolutely no ceilings.
You know, President Roosevelt’s four freedoms are a testament to our nation’s unmatched aspirations and a reminder of our unfinished work at home and abroad.
His legacy lifted up a nation and inspired Presidents who followed. One is the man I served as Secretary of State – Barack Obama. And another is my husband, Bill Clinton.
Two Democrats guided by – oh, that will make him so happy. They were two Democrats guided by the fundamental American belief that real and lasting prosperity must be built by all and shared by all.
President Roosevelt called on every American to do his or her part, and every American answered.
He said, “There’s no mystery about what it takes to build a strong and prosperous America: equality of opportunity, jobs for those who can work, security for those who need it, the ending of special privilege for the few, the preservation of civil liberties for all, a wider and a constantly rising standard of living.”
That still sounds good to me.
It’s America’s basic bargain. If you do your part, you ought to be able to get ahead, and when everybody does their part, America gets ahead too.
That bargain inspired generations of families including my own.
It’s what kept my grandfather going to work in the same Scranton lace mill everyday for 50 years.
It’s what led my father to believe that if he scrimped and saved, his small business printing drapery fabric in Chicago could provide us with a middle class life and it did.
When President Clinton honored the bargain, we had the longest peacetime expansion in history, a balanced budget, and for the first time in decades, we all grew together with the bottom 20% of workers increasing their incomes by the same percentage as the top 5%.
When President Obama honored the bargain, we pulled back from the brink of Depression, saved the auto industry, provided health care to 16 million working people, and replaced the jobs we lost faster than the historical average after a financial crash.

But it’s not 1941 or 1993 or even 2009.
We face new challenges in our economy and our democracy. We’re still working our way back from a crisis that happened because time tested values were replaced by false promises.
Instead of an economy built by every American for every American, we were told that if we let those at the top pay lower taxes and bend the rules, their success would trickle down to everyone else.
What happened? Well, instead of a balanced budget with surpluses that could have eventually paid off our national debt, the Republicans twice cut taxes for the wealthiest, borrowed money from other countries to pay for two wars, and family incomes dropped.
You know where we ended up.
Except it wasn’t the end, as we have since our founding, Americans made a new beginning.
You worked extra shifts, took second jobs, postponed home repairs. You figured out how to make it work.
And now people are beginning to think about their future again – going to college, starting a business, buying a house, finally being able to put away something for retirement.
So we’re standing again. But we all know we’re not yet running the way America should.
You see corporations making record profits with CEOs making record pay but your paychecks have barely budged.
While many of you are working multiple jobs to make ends meet, you see the top 25 hedge fund managers making more than all of America’s kindergarten teachers combined and often paying a lower tax rate.
So, you have to wonder, “When does my hard work pay off? When does my family get ahead? When?”
I say now!
Prosperity can’t be just for CEOs and hedge fund managers. Democracy can’t be just for billionaires and corporations. Prosperity and democracy are part of your basic bargain too.
You brought our country back. Now it’s time – your time – to secure the gains and move ahead.
And you know what? America can’t succeed unless you succeed.
That is why I am running for President of the United States.

Here on Roosevelt Island, I believe we have a continuing rendezvous with destiny – each American and the country we cherish.
I’m running to make our economy work for you and for every American, for the successful and the struggling, for the innovators and inventors, for those breaking barriers in technology and discovering cures for diseases, for the factory workers and food servers who stand on their feet all day, for the nurses who work the night shift, for the truckers who drive for hours and the farmers who feed us, for the veterans who served our country, for the small business owners who took a risk, for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refused to be knocked out.
I’m not running for some Americans but for all Americans.
Our country’s challenges didn’t begin with the Great Recession and they won’t end with the recovery.
For decades, Americans have been buffeted by powerful currents. Advances in technology and the rise of global trade have created whole new areas of economic activity and opened new markets for our exports but they have also displaced jobs and undercut wages for millions of Americans.
The financial industry and many multi-national corporations have created huge wealth for a few by focusing too much on short-term profit and too little on long-term value, too much on complex trading schemes and stock buybacks, too little on investments in new businesses, jobs, and fair compensation.
Our political system is so paralyzed by gridlock and dysfunction that most Americans have lost confidence that anything can actually get done. And they’ve lost trust in the ability of both government and big business to change course.
Now, we can blame historic forces beyond our control for some of this but the choices we’ve made as a nation – leaders and citizens alike – have also played a big role.
Our next President must work with Congress and every other willing partner across our entire country, and I will do just that to turn the tide so these currents start working for us more than against us.
At our best, that’s what Americans do. We’re problem solvers, not deniers. We don’t hide from change; we harness it.
But we can’t do that if we go back to the top-down economic policies that failed us before.
Americans have come too far to see our progress ripped away.
Now there may be some new voices in the Presidential Republican choir, but they’re all singing the same old songs – a song called “Yesterday”.
You know the one. “All our troubles look as though they are here to stay and we need a place to hide away.”
They believe in yesterday, and you’re lucky I didn’t try to singing that too I’ll tell you.
These Republicans trip over themselves promising lower taxes for the wealthy and fewer rules for the biggest corporations without regard for how that will make income inequality even worse.
We’ve heard this tune before and we know how it turns out.
Ask many of these candidates about climate change – one of the defining threats of our time – and they’ll say, “I’m not a scientist.” Well, then why don’t they start listening to those who are?

They pledged to wipe out tough rules on Wall Street rather than rein in the banks that are still too risky, courting future failures in a case that can only be considered mass amnesia.
They want to take away health insurance from more than 16 million Americans without any credible alternatives.
They shame and blame women rather than respect our right to make our own reproductive health decisions.
They want to put immigrants who work hard and pay taxes at risk of deportation.
And they turn their backs on gay people who love each other.
Fundamentally, they reject what it takes to build an inclusive economy.
It takes an inclusive society – what I once called a village that has a place for everyone.
Now, my values and a lifetime of experiences have given me a different vision for America.
I believe that success isn’t measured by how much the wealthiest Americans have but how many children climb out of poverty, how many start-ups and small businesses open and thrive, how many young people go to college without drowning in debt, how many people find a good job, how many families get ahead and stay ahead.
I didn’t learn this from politics. I learned it from my own family.
My mother taught me that everybody needs a chance and a champion. She knew what it was like not to have either one.
Her own parents abandoned her and by 14 she was out on her own working as a housemaid.
Years later, when I was old enough to understand I asked what kept her going. You know what her answer was? Something very simple: Kindness from someone who believed she mattered.
The first grade teacher who saw that she had nothing to eat at lunch and without embarrassing her brought extra food to share.
The woman whose house she cleaned letting her go to high school so long as her work got done. That was a bargain she leapt to accept.
And because some people believed in her, she believed in me.
That’s why I believe with all my heart in America and in the potential of every American to meet every challenge, to be resilient no matter what the world throws at you, to solve the toughest problems.
I believe we can do all these things because I’ve seen it happen.
As a young girl, I signed up at my Methodist church to babysit the children of Mexican farm workers while their parents worked in the fields on the weekends.
And later as a law student, I advocated for Congress to require better working and living conditions for farm workers whose children deserve better opportunities.
My first job out of law school was for the Children’s Defense Fund. I walked door to door to find out how many children with disabilities couldn’t go to school and to help build a case for a law guaranteeing them access to education.
As a leader of a legal services corporation, I defended the right of poor people to have a lawyer, and I saw lives changed because an abusive marriage ended or an illegal eviction stopped.

In Arkansas, I supervised law students who represented clients in courts and prisons, organized scholarships for single parents going to college, led efforts for better schools and health care, and personally knew the people whose lives were improved.
As Senator, I had the honor of representing brave firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers and volunteers who ran toward danger on 9/11 and stayed there, becoming sick themselves. It took years of efforts but Congress finally approved the health care they needed.
There are so many faces and stories that I carry with me of people who gave their best and then needed help themselves.
Just weeks ago, I met another person like that – a single mom juggling a job and classes at community college while raising three kids. She doesn’t expect anything to come easy but she did ask me what more can be done so it isn’t quite so hard for families like hers.
I want to be her champion and your champion.
If you’ll give me the chance, I’ll wage and win four fights for you.
The first is to make the economy work for everyday Americans not just those at the top, to make the middle class mean something again with rising incomes and broader horizons, and to give the poor a chance to work their way into it.
The middle class needs more growth and more fairness. Growth and fairness go together. For lasting prosperity, you can’t have one without the other.
Is this possible in today’s world? I believe it is or I wouldn’t be standing here.
Do I think it will be easy? Of course not.
But here’s the good news. There are allies for change everywhere who know we can’t stand by while inequality increases, wages stagnate and the promise of America dims. We should welcome the support of all Americans who want to go forward together with us.
There are public officials who know Americans need a better deal, business leaders who want higher pay for employees, equal pay for women, and no discrimination against the LGBT community either.
There are leaders of finance who want less short-term trading and more long-term investing.
There are union leaders who are investing their own pension funds in putting people to work to build tomorrow’s economy.
We need everyone to come to the table and work with us.
In the coming weeks, I’ll propose specific policies to reward businesses to invest in long-term value rather than the quick buck because that leads to higher growth for the economy, higher wages for workers, and yes, bigger profits. Everybody will have a better time.
I will rewrite the tax code so that it rewards hard work and investments here at home not quick trades or stashing profits overseas.
I will give new incentives to companies that give their employees a fair share of the profits their hard work earns.
We will unleash a new generation of entrepreneurs and small business owners by providing tax relief, cutting red tape, and making it easier to get a small business loan.
We will restore America to the cutting edge of innovation, science, and research by increasing both public and private investments.

And we will make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century, developing renewal power – wind, solar, advanced biofuels – building cleaner power plants, smarter electric grids, greener buildings, using additional fees and royalties from fossil fuel extraction to protect the environment and ease the transition for distressed communities for a more diverse and sustainable economic future from coal country to Indian country, from small towns in the Mississippi delta to the Rio Grande valley to our inner cities. We have to help our fellow Americans.
Now, this will create million of jobs and countless new businesses and enable America to lead the global fight against climate change.
We will also connect workers to their jobs and businesses. Customers will have a better chance to actually get where they need and get what they desire with roads, railways, bridges, airports, ports and broadband brought up to global standards for the 21st century.
We will establish an infrastructure bank and sell bonds to pay for some of these improvements.
Now, building an economy for tomorrow also requires investing in our most important asset – our people beginning with our youngest.
That’s why I will propose that we make pre-school and quality childcare available to every child in America.
And I want you to remember this because to me this is absolutely the most compelling argument why we should do this:
Research tells us how much early learning in the first five years of life can impact lifelong success. In fact, 80% of your brain is developed by age 3.
And one thing that I’ve learned is that talent is universal. You can find it anywhere. But opportunity is not.
Too many of our kids never have the chance to learn and thrive as they should and as we need them to.
Our country won’t be competitive or fair if we don’t help more families get their kids the best possible start in life.
So let’s staff our primary and secondary schools with teachers who are second to none in the world and receive the respect they deserve for sparking the love of learning in every child.
Let’s make college affordable and available to all and lift the crushing burden of student debt.
Let’s provide lifelong learning for workers to gain or improve skills that economy requires, setting up many more Americans for success.
Now, the second fight is to strengthen America’s families because when our families are strong, America is strong.
And today’s families face new and unique pressures. Parents need more support and flexibility to do their job at work and at home.
I believe you should have the right to earn paid sick days.
I believe you should receive your work schedule with enough notice to arrange child care or take college courses to get ahead.
I believe you should look forward to retirement with confidence not anxiety, that you should have the peace of mind that your health care will be there when you need it without breaking the bank.
I believe we should offer paid family leave so no one – no one – has to choose between keeping a paycheck and caring for a baby or a sick relative.
And it is way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job and women of color often making even less. This isn’t a women’s issue; it’s a family issue.
Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue. Expanding child care is a family issue. Declining marriage rates is a family issue. The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue.
Helping more people with an addiction or a mental health problem get help is a family issue.

In America, every family should feel like they belong. So we should offer hardworking law abiding immigrant families a path to citizenship, not second class status.
And we should ban discrimination against LGBT Americans and their families so they can live, learn, marry, and work just like everybody else.
You know, American diversity, our openness, our devotion to human rights and freedom is what’s drawn so many to our shores, what’s inspired people all over the people. I know. I’ve seen it with my own eyes.
And these are also the qualities that prepare us well for the demands of a world that is more interconnected than ever before.
So we have a third fight: To harness all of America’s power, smarts, and values; to maintain our leadership for peace, security, and prosperity.
No other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21st century.
No other country is better equipped to meet traditional threats from countries like Russia, North Korea, and Iran and to deal with the rise of new powers like China.
No other country is better prepared to meet emerging threats from cyber attacks, transnational terror networks like ISIS, and diseases that spread across oceans and continents.
As your President, I’ll do whatever it takes to keep Americans safe.
And if you look over my left shoulder, you can see the new World Trade Center soaring skyward.
As a Senator from New York, I dedicated myself to getting our city and state the help we needed to recover, and as a member of the Armed Services Committee I worked to maintain the best trained, best equipped, strongest military ready for today’s threats and tomorrow’s.
And when our brave men and women come home from war or finish their service, I’ll see to it that they get not just the thanks of a grateful nation but the care and benefits they’ve earned.
I’ve stood up to adversaries like Putin and reinforced allies like Israel.
And I was in the Situation Room on the day we got Bin Laden.
But I know, we have to be smart as well as strong.
Meeting today’s global challenges requires every element of America’s power including skillful diplomacy, economic influence, and building partnerships to improve lives around the world with people not just their governments.
There are a lot of trouble spots in the world, but there’s a lot of good news out there today.
I believe the future holds far more opportunities than threats if we exercise creative and confident leadership that enables us to shape global events rather than be shaped by them.

And we all know that in order to be strong in the world, we first have to be strong at home.
That’s why we have to win the fourth fight: Reforming our government and revitalizing our democracy so that it works for everyday Americans.
We have to stop the endless flow of secret unaccountable money that is distorting our elections, corrupting our political process, and drowning out the voices of our people.
We need justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen’s right to vote rather than every corporation’s right to buy elections.
If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment to undo the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United.
I want to make it easier for every citizen to vote. That’s why I’ve proposed universal automatic registration and expanded early voting.
I’ll fight back against Republican efforts to disempower and disenfranchise young people, poor people, people with disabilities and people of color. What part of democracy are they afraid of?
But no matter how easy we make it to vote, we still have to give Americans something worth voting for.
Government is never going to have all the answers but it has to be smarter, simpler, more efficient and a better partner.
That means access to advanced technologies so government agencies can more effectively serve their customers – the American people.
We need expertise and innovation from the private sector to help cut waste and streamline services.
There’s so much that works in America. For every problem we face, someone, somewhere in America is solving it.
Silicon Valley cracked the code on sharing and scaling a while ago.
Many states are pioneering new ways to deliver services.
I want to help Washington catch up.
To do that, we need a political system that produces results by solving problems that hold us back, not one overwhelmed by extreme partisanship and inflexibility.
Now, I’ll always seek common ground with friend and opponent alike. But I’ll also stand my ground when I must.
That’s something I did as Senator and Secretary of State whether it was working with Republicans to expand health care for children and for our National Guard or improve our foster care and adoption system or pass a treaty to reduce the number of Russian nuclear warheads that could threaten our cities. And it is something I will always do as your President.
We, Americans, may differ, bicker, stumble, and fall. But we are at our best when we pick each other up, when we have each other’s back.
Like any family, our American family is strongest when we cherish what we have in common and fight back against those who would drive us apart.
People all over the world have asked me, “How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard against each other in that long campaign?”
Now, that is an understandable question considering that in many places if you lose an election, you could get imprisoned, exiled, or even killed not hired as Secretary of State.
But President Obama asked me to serve and I accepted because we both love our country. That’s how we do in America. With that same spirit together, we could win these four fights.
We can build an economy where hard work is rewarded. We can strengthen our families. We can defend our country and increase our opportunities all over the world. And we can renew the promise of our democracy if we all do our part and our families and our businesses, unions, houses of worship, schools, and yes in the voting booth.
I want you to join me in this effort. Help me build this campaign and make it your own.
Talk to your friends, your family, your neighbors. Text join – J-O-I-N – to 47246. Go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to make calls and knock on doors.
It’s no secret that we’re going up against some pretty powerful forces that will do and spend whatever it takes to advance a very different vision for America.
But I’ve spent my life fighting for children, families, and our country, and I’m not stopping now.
Now, I know how hard this job is. I’ve seen it up close and personal.
All our Presidents come into office looking so vigorous and then we watch their hair grow grayer and grayer.
Well, I may not be the youngest candidate in this race. But I will be the youngest woman President in the history of the United States.
And the first grandmother as well!
And one additional advantage – you won’t see my hair turn white in the White House; I’ve been coloring it for years.
So I’m looking for a great debate among Democrats, Republicans, and Independents; I’m not running to be President only for those Americans who already agree with me. I want to be President for all Americans.
And along the way, I’ll just let you know on this little secret. I won’t get everything right.
Lord knows I’ve made my share of mistakes. Well, there’s no shortage of people pointing them out.
And I certainly haven’t won every battle I’ve fought.
But leadership means perseverance and hard choices. You have to push through the setbacks and the disappointments and keep at it.
I think you know by now that I’ve been called many things by many people. Quitter is not one of them.
Like so much else in my life, I got this from my mother. When I was a girl, she’d never let me back down from any bully or barrier.
In her later years, mom lived with us and she was still teaching me the same lessons.
I’d come home from a hard day at the Senate or the State Department, sit down with her at the small table in our breakfast nook and just let everything pour out.
And she would remind me why we keep fighting even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce. I can still hear her saying, “Life’s not about what happens to you. It’s about what you do with what happens to you. So get back out there.”
She lived to be 92 years old and I often think about all the battles that she witnessed over the course of the last century – all the progress that was won because Americans refused to give up or back down.
She was born on June 4, 1919 before women in America had the right to vote but on that very day after years of struggle Congress passed a constitutional amendment that would change that forever.
The story of America is a story of hard-fought, hard-won progress, and it continues today.
New chapters are being written by men and women who believe that all of us, not just some but all, should have the chance to live up to our God-given potential not only because we are a tolerant country or a generous country or a compassionate country but because we are a better, stronger, more prosperous country when we harness the talent, hard work and ingenuity of every single American.
I wish my mother could have been with us longer. I wish she could have seen Chelsea become a mother herself. I wish she could have met Charlotte.
I wish she could have seen the America we’re going to build together – an America where if you do your part, you reap the rewards, where we don’t leave anyone out or anyone behind, an America where a father can tell his daughter, “Yes, you can be anything you want to be even President of the United States.”
Thank you all. God bless you. And may God bless America.

…Iran did obviously come up. This is a very important moment.
The President called me late last night to tell me that agreement had been reached.
I applaud him and both Secretary Kerry and Secretary Moniz for their extraordinary efforts in bringing about this conclusion.
Based on what I know now – and I will be briefed as soon as I finish addressing you – this is an important step in putting the lid on Iran’s nuclear program.
There will be a number of issues that have to be addressed. I want to just mention two.
The first is enforcement. This agreement will have to be enforced vigorously, relentlessly.
We have in the agreement the access for inspections and the transparency that was absolutely necessary.
But we have to treat this as an ongoing enforcement effort, which I certainly strongly support and as President would be absolutely devoted to ensuring that the agreement is followed.
And secondly, this does put a lid on the nuclear program but we still have a lot of concern about the bad behavior and the actions by Iran, which remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism, which does go after and undermine governments in the region, that poses an existential threat to Israel, that unfairly, unlawfully confines and tries Americans on trumped up charges.
That bad behavior is something we have to address.
Having been part of building the coalition that brought us to the point of this agreement, I think we will have to immediately upon completion of this agreement and its rigorous enforcement look to see how we build a coalition to try to prevent and undermine Iran’s bad behaviors in other arenas.
I will be talking as soon as I leave you with the other Secretaries of State and other national security advisors to get more details.
But as I say, I think this is an important step that puts the lid on Iran’s nuclear programs and it will enable us then to turn our attention as it must to doing what we can with other partners in the region and beyond to try to prevent and contain Iran’s other bad actions.
So all in all, I think we have to look at this seriously, evaluate it carefully, but I believe based on what I know now this is an important step.
Thank you all very much.
…You know, over the past few months I have had the opportunity to listen to Americans’ concerns about an economy that still isn’t delivering for them.
It’s not delivering the way that it should.
It still seems to most Americans that I have spoken with that it is stacked for those at the top.
But I’ve also heard about the hopes that people have for their future – going to college without drowning in debt, starting that small business they’ve always dreamed about, getting a job that pays well enough to support a family and provide for a secure retirement.
Previous generations of Americans built the greatest economy and strongest middle class the world has ever known on the promise of a basic bargain – if you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and when you get ahead, America gets ahead.
But over the past several decades, that bargain has eroded.
Our job is to make it strong again.
For 35 years, Republicans have argued that if we give more wealth to those at the top by cutting their taxes and letting big corporations write their own rules, it will trickle down. It will trickle down to everyone else.
Yet, every time they have a chance to try that approach, it explodes the national debt, concentrates wealth even more, and does practically nothing to help hardworking Americans.
Twice now in the past 20 years, a Democratic President has had to come in and clean up the mess left behind.
I think the results speak for themselves.
Under President Clinton – I like the sound of that – America saw the longest peacetime expansion in our history.
Nearly 23 million jobs, a balanced budget and a surplus for the future.
And most importantly, incomes rose across the board, not just for those already at the top.
Eight years later, President Obama and the American people’s hard work pulled us back from the brink of depression.
President Obama saved the auto industry, imposed new rules on Wall Street, and provided health care to 16 million Americans.
Now, today as the shadow of crisis recedes and longer term challenges come into focus, I believe we have to build a growth and fairness economy. You can’t have one without the other.
We can’t create enough jobs and new businesses without more growth, and we can’t build strong families and support our consumer economy without more fairness.
We need both because while America is standing again, we’re not yet running the way we should.
Corporate profits are near record highs and Americans are working as hard as ever.
But paychecks have barely budged in real terms.
Families today are stretched in so many directions and so are their budgets.
Out of pocket costs for health care, child care, caring for aging parents are rising a lot faster than wages.
I hear this everywhere I go:
The single mom who talked to me about juggling a job and classes at community college while raising three kids. She doesn’t expect anything to come easy. But if she got a raise, everything wouldn’t be quite so hard.
The grandmother who works around the clock providing child care to other people’s kids. She’s proud of her work but the pay is barely enough to live on, especially with the soaring price of her prescription drugs.
The young entrepreneur whose dream of buying the bowling alley where he worked as a teenager was nearly derailed by his student debt. If he can grow his business, he’ll be able to pay off his debt and pay his employees, including himself, more too.
Millions of hardworking Americans tell similar stories. Wages need to rise to keep up with costs. Paychecks need to grow. Families who work hard and do their part deserve to get ahead and stay ahead.
The defining economic challenge of our time is clear: We must raise incomes for hardworking Americans so they can afford a middle class life. We must drive strong and steady income growth that lifts up families and lifts up our country.
And that will be my mission from the first day I’m President to the last.
I will get up everyday thinking about the families of America like the family that I came from with a hardworking dad who started a small business and scrimped and saved and gave us a good middle class life.
I’ll be thinking about all the people I represented here in New York and the stories that they told me and that I worked with them to improve.
And I will as your President take on this challenge against the backdrop of major changes in our economy and the global economy that didn’t start with the recession and won’t end with the recovery.
You know, advances in technology and expanding global trade have created whole new areas of commercial activity and open new markets for our exports.
Too often, they’re also polarizing our economy, benefitting high skilled workers but displacing or downgrading blue collar jobs and other mid-level jobs that used to provide solid incomes for millions of Americans.
Today’s marketplace focuses too much on the short-term like second-to-second financial trading and quarterly earnings reports and too little on long-term investments.
Meanwhile, many Americans are making extra money renting out a spare room, designing websites, selling products they designed themselves at home or even driving their own car.
This on-demand or so-called “gig economy” is creating exciting opportunities and unleashing innovation.
But it’s also raising hard questions about workplace protections and what a good job will look like in the future.
So all of these trends are real and none – none – is going away. But they don’t determine our destiny.
The choices we make as a nation matter, and the choices we make in the years ahead will set the stage for what American life in the middle class, in our economy will be like in this century.
As President, I will work with every possible partner to turn the tide, to make these currents of change start working for us more than against us, to strengthen – not hollow out – the American middle class.
Because I think at our best, that’s what Americans do. We’re problem solvers, not deniers. We don’t hide from change. We harness it.
The measure of our success must be how much incomes rise for hardworking families, not just for successful CEOs and money managers and not just some arbitrary growth target untethered to people’s lives and livelihoods.
I want to see our economy work for the struggling, the striving, and the successful.
We’re not going to find all the answers we need today in the playbooks of the past. We can’t go back to the old policies that failed us before nor can we replay the successes.
Today is not 1993, it’s not 2009.
So we need big solutions for the big challenges we face now.
So today, I’m proposing an agenda to raise incomes for hardworking Americans – an agenda for strong growth, fair growth, and long-term growth.
Let me begin with strong growth. More growth means more jobs and more new businesses.
More jobs give people choices about where to work. And employers have to offer higher wages and better benefits in order to compete with each other to hire new workers and keep the productive ones.
That’s why economists tell us that getting closer to full employment is crucial for raising incomes.
Small businesses create more than 60% of new American jobs on net so they have to be a top priority.
I’ve said that I want to be the small business President and I mean it, and throughout this campaign, I’m going to be talking about how we empower entrepreneurs with less red tape, easier access to capital, tax relief and simplification.
I’ll also push for broader business tax reform to spur investment in America, closing those loopholes that reward companies for sending jobs and profits overseas.
And I know it’s not always how we think about this but another engine of strong growth should be comprehensive immigration reform.
I want you to hear this: Bringing millions of hardworking people into the formal economy would increase our gross domestic product by an estimated $700 billion over 10 years.
Then there are the new public investments that will help established businesses and entrepreneurs create the next generation of high-paying jobs.
You know, when we get Americans moving, we get our country moving.
So let’s establish an infrastructure bank that can channel more public and private funds – channel those funds to finance world class airports, railways, roads, bridges, and ports.
And let’s build those faster broadband networks and make sure there’s a greater diversity of providers so consumers have more choice.
And really, there’s no excuse not to make greater investments in cleaner, renewable energy right now.
Our economy obviously runs on energy and the time has come to make America the world’s clean energy super power.
I advocate that because these investments will create millions of jobs, save us money in the long run, and help us meet the threats of climate change.
And let’s fund the scientific and medical research that spawns innovative companies and creates entire new industries just as the project to sequence the human genome did in the 1990s and President Obama’s initiatives on precision medicine and brain research will do in the coming years.
I will set ambitious goals in all of these areas in the months ahead.
But today, let me emphasize another key ingredient of strong growth that often goes overlooked and undervalued: Breaking down barriers so more Americans participate more fully in the workforce, especially women.
We are in a global competition as I’m sure you have noticed and we can’t afford to leave talent on the sidelines.
But that’s exactly what we’re doing today. When we leave people out or write them off, we not only shortchange them and their dreams, we shortchange our country and our future.
The movement of women into the American workforce over the past 40 years was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth.
But that progress has stalled.
The United States used to rank 7th out of 24 advanced countries in women’s labor force participation. By 2013, we had dropped to 19th.
That represents a lot of unused potential for our economy and for American families.
Studies show that nearly a third of this decline relative to other countries is because they’re expanding family-friendly policies like paid leave and we are not.
We should be making it easier for Americans to be both good workers and good parents and caregivers.
Women who want to work should be able to do so without worrying everyday about how they’re going to take care of their children or what will happen if a family member gets sick.
You know, last year while I was at the hospital here in Manhattan waiting for little Charlotte to make her grand entrance, one of the nurses said “Thank you for fighting for paid leave.”
And we began to talk about it. She sees first hand what it means for herself and her colleagues as well as for the working parents that she helps take care of.
It’s time to recognize that quality, affordable child care is not a luxury; it’s a growth strategy.
And it’s way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job and women of color making even less.
You know, all this lost money adds up, and for some women it’s thousands of dollars every year.
Now, I am well aware that for far too long these challenges have been dismissed by some as “women’s issues”.
Well, those days are over.
Fair pay and fair scheduling, paid family leave, and earned sick days, child care are essential to our competitiveness and our growth.
And we can do this in ways that doesn’t impose unfair burdens on businesses, especially small businesses.
As President, I’ll fight to put families first just like I have my entire career.
Now beyond strong growth, we also need fair growth and that will be the second key driver of raising incomes.
The evidence is in. Inequality is a drag on our entire economy. So this is the problem we need to tackle.
Now, you may have heard Gov. [Jeb] Bush say last week that Americans just need to work longer hours. Well, he must not have met very many American workers.
Let him tell that to the nurse who stands on her feet all day or the teacher who is in that classroom or the trucker who drives all night.
Let him tell that to the fast food workers marching in the streets for better pay.
They don’t need a lecture; they need a raise.
The truth is the current rules for our economy do reward some work like financial trading, for example, much more than other work like actually building and selling things – the work that has always been the backbone of our economy.
To get all incomes rising again, we need to strike a better balance. If you work hard, you ought to be paid fairly.
So we do have to raise the minimum wage and implement President Obama’s new rules on overtime.
And then we have to go further. I’ll crack down on bosses who exploit employees by misclassifying them as contractors or even steal their wages.
To make paychecks stretch, we need to take on the major strains on family budgets. I’ll protect the Affordable Care Act and build on it to lower out-of-pocket health care costs and to make prescription drugs more affordable.
We’ll help families look forward to retirement by defending and enhancing Social Security and making it easier to save for the future.
Now, many of these proposals are time-tested and more than a little battle-scarred.
We need new ideas as well and one that I believe in and will fight for is profit-sharing. Hardworking Americans deserve to benefit from the record corporate earnings they help produce.
So I will propose ways to encourage companies to share profits with their employees that’s good for workers and good for businesses.
Studies show that profit-sharing that gives everyone a stake in a company’s success can boost productivity and put money directly into employees’ pockets. It’s a win-win.
Later this week in New Hampshire, I’ll have more to say about how we do this.
Another priority must be reforming our tax code.
Now, we hear Republican candidates talk a lot about tax reform. But take a good look at their plans.
Sen. [Marco] Rubio’s would cut taxes for households making around $3 million a year by almost $240,000 which is way more than three times the earnings of a typical family.
Well, that’s a sure budget-busting giveaway to the super wealthy and that’s the kind of bad economics you’re likely to hear from any of the candidates on the other side.
I have a different take guided by some simple principles.
First, hardworking families need and deserve tax relief and simplification.
Second, those at the top have to pay their fair share. That’s why I support the Buffett Rule, which makes sure that millionaires don’t pay lower rates than their secretaries.
I’ve also called for closing the carried interest loophole, which lets wealthy financiers pay an artificially low rate.
And let’s agree that hugely successful companies that benefit from everything America has to offer should not be able to game the system and avoid paying their fair share, especially while companies who can’t afford high price lawyers and lobbyists end up paying more.
Alongside tax reform, it’s time to stand up to efforts across our country to undermine worker bargaining power, which has been proven again and again to drive up wages.
Republican governors like Scott Walker have made their names stomping on workers’ rights and practically all the Republican candidates hope to do the same as President.
I will fight back against these mean-spirited, misguided attacks.
Evidence shows that the decline of unions may be responsible for a third of the increased of inequality among men.
So if we want to get serious about raising incomes, we have to get serious about supporting union workers.
And let me just say a word here about trade. The Greek crisis as well as the Chinese stock market have reminded us that growth here at home and growth an ocean away are linked in a common global economy.
Trade has been a major driver of the economy over recent decades. But it has also contributed to hollowing out our manufacturing base and many hardworking communities.
So we should set a high bar for trade agreements. We should support them if they create jobs, raise wages, and advance our national security, and we should be prepared to walk away if they don’t.
To create fair growth, we need to create opportunity for more Americans.
I love the saying by Abraham Lincoln, who in many ways was not only the President who saved our union but the President who understood profoundly the importance of the middle class and the importance of government playing its role in providing opportunities.
We talked about giving Americans a fair chance in the race of life. I believe that with all my heart.
But I also believe it has to start really early at birth.
High quality early learning especially in the first five years can set children on the course for future success and raise lifetime incomes by 25%.
And I’m committed to seeing every four-year-old in America have access to high quality pre-school in the next 10 years.
But I want to do more. I want to call for a great outpouring of support from our faith community, our business community, our academic institutions, from philanthropy and civic groups and concerned citizens to really help parents particularly parents who are facing a lot of obstacles to really help prepare their own children in that zero-to-four age group.
80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of three. That’s why families like mine read, talk, and sing endlessly to our granddaughter.
I’ve said that her first words are going to be “Enough” with the reading and the talking and the singing.
But we do it not only because we love doing it even though I’ll admit it’s a little embarrassing, you know, reading a book to a two-week old or a six-week-old or a ten-week-old. But we do it because we understand it’s building her capacity for learning.
And the research shows by the time she enters kindergarten, she would have heard 30 million more words than a child from a less advantaged background.
Think of what we are losing because we are not doing everything we can to reach out to those families.
And we know again from so much research here in the United States and around the world that that early help, that mentoring, that intervention to help those often stressed out young moms understand more about what they can do and to avoid the difficulties that stand in the way of their being able to really get their child off to the best possible start.
We also have to invest in our students and our teachers at every level, and in the coming weeks and months, I will lay out specific steps to improve our schools, make college truly affordable and help Americans refinance their student debt.
And let’s embrace the idea of lifelong learning. In an age of technological change, we need to provide pathways to get skills and credentials for new occupations and create online platforms to connect workers to jobs.
There are exciting efforts underway and I want to support and scale the ones that show results.
As we pursue all these policies, we can’t forget our fellow Americans hit so hard and left behind by this changing world, from the inner cities to coal country to Indian country.
Talent is universal; you find it everywhere. But opportunity is not.
There are nearly 6 million young people age 16 to 24 in America today who are not in school or at work.
The numbers for young people of color are particularly staggering. A quarter of young black men and nearly 15% of all Latino youths cannot find a job.
We’ve got to do a better way of coming up to match the growing middle class incomes we want to generate with more pathways into the middle class.
I firmly believe that the best anti-poverty program is a job. But that’s hard to say if there aren’t enough jobs for people that were trying to help lift themselves out of poverty.
That’s why I’ve called for reviving the New Markets Tax Credit and Empowerment Zones to create greater incentives to invest in poor and remote areas.
When all Americans have the chance to study hard, work hard and share in our country’s prosperity, that’s fair growth. It’s what I’ve always believed in and it’s what I will fight for as President.
Now, the third key driver of income alongside strong growth and fair growth must be long-term growth.
Too many pressures in our economy push us toward short-termism.
Many business leaders see this. They’ve talked to me about it.
One has called it the problem of quarterly capitalism.
They say everything is focused on the next earnings report or the short-term share price, and the result is too little attention on the sources of long-term growth – research and development, physical capital, and talent.
Net business investment which includes things like factories, machines, and research labs have declined as a share of the economy.
In recent years, some of our biggest companies have spent more than half their earnings to buy back their own stocks and another third or more to pay dividends.
That doesn’t leave a lot left to raise pay or invest in the workers who made those profits possible or to make new investments necessary to ensure a company’s future success.
These trends need to change. And I believe that many business leaders are eager to embrace their responsibilities not just to today’s share price but also to workers, communities, and ultimately to our country and indeed to our planet.
Now, I’m not talking about charity. I’m talking about clear-eyed capitalism.
Many companies have prospered by improving wages and training their workers that then yields higher productivity, better service, and larger profits.
Now, it’s easy to try to cut costs by holding down or even decreasing pay and other investments to inflate quarterly stock prices. But I would argue that’s bad for business in the long run and it’s really bad for our country.
Workers are our assets. Investing in them pays off. Higher wages pay off. Training pays off.
To help companies do that, I’ve proposed a new $1,500 tax credit for every worker they train and hire.
And I will soon be proposing a new plan to reform capital gain taxes to reward longer term investments that create jobs more than just quick trades.
I will also propose reforms to help CEOs and shareholders focus on the next decade rather than just the next day.
Making sure stock buybacks aren’t being used only for an immediate boost in share prices, empowering outside investors who want to build companies but discouraging cut-and-run shareholders who act more like old school corporate raiders.
And no where will the shift from short-term to long-term be more important than on Wall Street.
As a former Senator from New York, I know firsthand the role that Wall Street can and should play in our economy – helping Main Street grow and prosper and boosting new companies that make America more competitive globally.
But as we all know in the years before the crash, financial firms piled risk upon risk and regulators in Washington either couldn’t or wouldn’t keep up.
I was alarmed by this gathering storm and called for addressing the risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight.
Under President Obama’s leadership, we’ve imposed tough new rules that deal with some of the challenges on Wall Street.
But those rules have been under assault by Republicans in Congress and those running for President. I will fight back against these attacks and protect the reforms we’ve made.
We can do that and still ease burdens on community banks to encourage responsible loans to local people and businesses they know and trust.
We also have to go beyond Dodd-Frank. Too many major financial institutions are still too complex and too risky.
And the problems are not limited to the big banks that get all the headlines. Serious risks are emerging from the institutions in the so-called shadow banking system, including hedge funds, high frequency traders, non-bank finance companies. So many new kinds of entities which receive little oversight at all.
Stories of misconducts by individuals and institutions in the financial industry are shocking.
HSBC allowing drug cartels to launder money. Five major banks pleading guilty to felony charges for conspiring to manipulate currency exchange and interest rates. There can be no justification or tolerance for this kind of criminal behavior.
And while institutions have paid large fines and in some cases admitted guilt, too often it has seemed that the human beings responsible get off with limited consequences or none at all even when they’ve already pocketed the gains. This is wrong and on my watch it will change.
Over the course of this campaign I will offer plans to rein in excessive risks on Wall Street and ensure that stock markets work for everyday investors not just high frequency traders and those with the best or fastest connections.
I will appoint and empower regulators who understand that too big to fail is still too big a problem.
We’ll ensure that no firm is too complex to manage or oversee, and we will prosecute individuals as well as firms when they commit fraud or other criminal wrongdoing.
And when the government recovers money from corporations or individuals for harming the public, it should go into a separate trust fund to benefit the public. It could, for example, help modernize infrastructure or even be returned directly to taxpayers.
Now, reform is never easy. But we’ve done it before in our country and we have to get it right this time, and yes, we need leadership from the financial industry and across the private sector to join with us.
Two years ago, the head of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange – Terry Duffy – published an Op-Ed in the Wall Street Journal that really caught my attention. He wrote, “I’m concerned that those of us in financial services have forgotten who we serve and that the public knows it. Some Wall Streeters can too easily slip into regarding their work as a kind of money-making game divorced from the concerns of Main Street.”
I think we should listen to Terry Duffy.
Of course, long-term growth is only possible if the public sector steps up as well. So it’s time to end the era of budget brinkmanship and stop careening from one self-inflicted crisis to another.
It’s time to stop having debates over the small stuffs and focus how we’re going to tackle the big stuff together.
How do we respond to technological change in a way that creates more good jobs than it displaces or destroys? Can we sustain a boon in manufacturing? What are the best ways to nurture start-ups outside the successful corridors like Silicon Valley?
Questions like these demand thoughtful and mature debate from our policymakers in government, from our leaders in the private sector, our economists, our academics – others who can come together to the table and on behalf of America perform their patriotic duty to make sure our economy keeps working and our middle class keeps growing.
So government has to be smarter, simpler, more focused itself on long-term investments than short-term politics and be a better partner to cities, states, and the private sector.
Washington has to be a better steward of America’s tax dollars and Americans’ trust.
And please, let’s get back to making decisions that rely on evidence more than ideology.
That’s what I’ll do as President. I will seek out and welcome any good idea that is actually based on reality.
I want to have principled and pragmatic and progressive policies that really move us forward together and I will propose ways to ensure that our fiscal outlook is sustainable, including by continuing to restrain health care costs, which remain one of the key drivers of long-term deficits.
I will make sure Washington learns from how well local governments, businesses, and non-profits are working together in successful cities and towns across America.
You know, passing legislation is not the only way to drive progress. As President, I will use the power to convene, connect, and collaborate to build partnerships that actually get things done.
Because above all, we have to break out of the poisonous partisan gridlock and focus on the long-term needs of our country.
I confess, maybe it’s the grandmother in me but I believe that part of public service is planting trees under whose shade you’ll never sit, and the vision I’ve laid out here today for strong growth, fair growth, and long-term growth all working together will get incomes rising again, will help working families get ahead and stay ahead.
That is the test of our time.
And I’m inviting everyone to please join me to do your part. That’s what great countries do. That’s what our country always has done. We rise to challenges. It’s not about left, right, or center. It’s about the future versus the past.
I’m running for President to build an America for tomorrow not yesterday – an America built on growth and fairness, an America where if you do your part, you will reap the rewards where we don’t leave anyone behind.
Thank you all. Thank you.
…Just look around this room and you can see that Democrats are united. We’re energized. And we are ready to win this election.
Now, I know and you do as well that elections are always about the future. But this time, I feel that even more powerfully.
Maybe it’s because our country has worked so hard to come back from the financial crisis.
With President Obama’s leadership and the determination of the American people, we’re standing again.
But we’re not yet running the way America should. And now we have to choose whether we’re going to return to the failed top-down policies that wrecked our economy before or move forward to chart a stronger, fairer and more prosperous future.
Now, maybe it is the grandmother in me but this is deeply personal. There’s something about becoming a grandparent. It is truly transformational.
Some of you know what I’m talking about. It anchors you in the present and you suddenly have this incredible amazing little person who commands a lot of attention.
But it also forces you to think about the future in a new way.
What kind of world will be waiting for her? What kind of country will we have when she becomes an adult? And what are our responsibilities to shape it?
I’m thinking a lot these days about my own mother and what she did for me.
Abandoned and mistreated by her own family, she was out on her own by 14, working as a house maid. But she didn’t give into bitterness or despair.
And I remember asking her “How did you keep your resilience? How did you keep your faith in the goodness of people and the future that would be better than the past?”
And here’s what she said – someone along the way believed she mattered. The first grade teacher who saw that she had nothing to eat at lunch and without embarrassing brought extra food to share. The woman whose house she cleaned suggesting she go to high school so long as her work was done.
And because those people believed in her, she was able to believe in me and to give me the great gift of believing in others and in our country.
So my mom wasn’t surprised that my first job out of law school was at the Children’s Defense Fund, she wasn’t surprised that I’ve spent my life fighting for women, children, families and our country.
After all, that’s what she taught me to do. And she never stopped pushing me to fight harder for others to have the same opportunities she never had.
I can still hear her saying, “Life’s not about what happens to you. It’s about what you do with what happens to you. So get back out there.”
And that’s why I’m here with you today.
That’s why I’m so determined to build a better future, not just for my granddaughter but for all of our children and grandchildren.
And that’s why I’m never going to let the Republicans rip away the progress we have made.
You know, we Democrats are in the future business.
But from the Republican candidates for President, we see the opposite. Now, they may have some fresh faces but they are the party of the past.
We Democrats, we look at America and we see limitless potential.
We believe in a basic bargain: If you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
And we believe that the measure of our success should be how much incomes rise for hardworking families not just for CEOs and money managers.
Well, Republicans believe something very different. Their answer is always the same – cut taxes for the super wealthy, let big corporations write their own rules. That’s it.
Trickle-down economics has to be one of the worst ideas of the 1980s. It is right up there with new Coke, shoulder pads and big hair. I lived through it and there are photographs and we’re not going back to that.
This past Monday, I laid out an agenda for raising incomes so hardworking Americans can afford a middle class life – an agenda for strong growth, fair growth, and long-term growth.
That will be my mission from the first day I’m President to the last.
And this campaign has to be about how we unlock the potential of every American because that is how we unlock the potential of America itself.
Now, I’m having a great debate already with Republicans about what that means for our country.
In the past week, Gov. Bush scrambled to explain his statement that Americans need to work longer hours.
He now says he just wants part-time workers to be able to find full-time jobs. Well, so do I.
There’s just one problem. His policies and the policies of all these Republican candidates would make that harder. Giving more tax cuts to those at the top won’t do anything for part-time workers. Rolling back rules for Wall Street will not help families get ahead.
And getting rid of the Affordable Care Act certainly won’t help entrepreneurs. Just ask the folks in the sharing economy.
Americans don’t need lectures. They need raises.
So if Republicans really want to help us, why don’t they join us in breaking down the barriers so more Americans can enter and succeed in the workforce, especially women.
Now, I know that when I talk about this, some people think – I can see it in their eyes – “There she goes again with the women’s issues.”
Well, I’m not going to stop so get ready for a long campaign.
You see, I have this old fashioned idea we can’t afford to leave anyone on the sidelines.
And women who want to work should be able to do so without worrying everyday about how they’re going to take care of their child or what will happen if a family member gets sick. That’s not a luxury; it’s a growth strategy.
Paid leave, earned sick days, child care, minimum wage – these are not women’s issues; these are family issues and they are economic issues.
So I will keep fighting for them and ask you to join.
And I’m going to keep fighting for equal pay because when women get short-changed, families get short-changed. And when families get short-changed, our economy and our country get short-changed.
Unlocking potential though goes beyond dollars and cents; it really is about our values, how we treat each other, the kind of country we want to build.
On that historic day last month when marriage equality became the law of the land, Republican candidates were complaining, not cheering. We even heard a call for abolishing the Supreme Court itself.
Instead of trying to turn the clock back, Republicans should be joining us and saying loudly and clearly no to discrimination once and for all.
LGBT Americans should be free not just to marry but to live, learn, and work just like everybody else.
And then there’s immigration. We’ve heard a lot recently from the new Republican frontrunner – Donald Trump. Finally, a candidate whose hair gets more attention than mine.
But there’s nothing funny about the hate he is spewing toward immigrants and their families. It really is shameful.
And so is the fact that it took weeks for most of his fellow Republican candidates to stand up to him.
The sad truth is if you look at many of their policies, it is hard to tell the difference.
Just look across the border in Wisconsin.
Gov. [Scott] Walker kicked off his campaign by rolling back reproductive rights for women and stripping union workers of their rights. We don’t need any more politicians who shame and blame women for making our own reproductive health decisions or attacking unions for fighting for middle class jobs.
And I know there are challenges right here in Iowa because you’ve been talking to me about them.
Just listen to this. Iowa has fewer than 750 beds for more than 128,000 people in your state with serious mental illnesses.
Families worry about relatives who need help and can’t get it. And the Iowans I’ve talked to don’t understand why your Governor would veto a bipartisan compromise without funding a viable alternative.
And that’s not all. The government also said no to investing in Iowa’s students, teachers, and schools. So tonight, I’m adding my voice to yours.
Gov. [Terry] Branstad, put down your veto pen. Iowa families don’t need a stand-off; they need solutions.
That’s why we can’t let Republicans take us back like they’re trying to do.
We are not going back to trickle-down economics or the wild west on Wall Street. We’re not going back to insurance companies charging women more for the same coverage.
We’re not going back to denying climate change. If you ask most of these Republican candidates about that, they’ll say, “Sorry, I’m not a scientist.” Well, why don’t they start listening to those who are scientists?
Look, I’m not a scientist either. I’m just a grandmother with two eyes and a brain and I’m not going to let them take us backwards.
So please, Iowa Democrats – join me. Let’s build up our party in every corner of this state and country, elect Democrats at every level, take back school boards and state houses all the way to the White House.
I’m running to make our country work for you and for every American – for the struggling, the striving, and the successful, for the factory workers and the food servers who have taken care of us tonight, for the veterans who’ve served our country, for the veterans who’ve served our country, for the farmers who feed us, and the small business owners who take a risk, for the nurses who work the night shift, and the truckers who drive for hours.
I am running for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refuse to be knocked out. I’m running for you. We’re going to build an America where we don’t leave anyone out or anyone behind, where if you work hard you will do your part and get ahead and where a father can tell his daughter, “You can be anything you want to be, even President of the United States.”
Thank you all very much!
…I want to tell you it’s wonderful being back here at NYU, and I thank you all for joining me today and especially my good friend and former colleague Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. Thank you so much, Carolyn, for coming.
I am grateful for this opportunity to share some of my further thoughts about the economy and the work that our country needs to do in the years ahead.
First, I want to say a word about what’s in the news today.
And it’s because there have been a lot of inaccuracies as Congressman Cummings made clear this morning.
Maybe the heat is getting to everybody.
We all have a responsibility to get this right. I have released 55,000 pages of emails. I have said repeatedly that I will answer questions before the House Committee.
We are all accountable to the American people to get the facts right, and I will do my part.
But I’m also going to stay focused on the issues, particularly the big issues, that really matter to American families.
You know, over the past few months, I’ve had the pleasure of meeting young people all over our country.
Many came of age in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis and the deep recession that it caused.
The fallout from that crash has tempered their expectations for the future and left them clear-eyed about the challenges ahead. The challenges that they face and that America faces.
Yet, like generations of American before them, there is also undimmed optimism. Today’s young people are preparing to enter an economy they know will be competitive, not just at home but globally.
They’re thinking about how they’ll find a good job after graduation that can help them get ahead and stay ahead.
The risk of a setback or potentially another crisis is never far from their minds.
But what inspires me is that they are undaunted by these challenges.
They’re seeking real opportunities and real rewards for the work that they put in and they’re hopeful that tomorrow will indeed be better than today.
So I hear these stories everywhere I go – the hard work, the grit, the sacrifices of people across our country that have brought us back and driven our recovery.
So yes, now we’re standing again, but we’re not yet running the way America should.
No country is better positioned to thrive in today’s global economy than we are.
We have the most innovative, enterprising private sector, and most talented workers anywhere in the world.
Yet, while corporate profits are at near record highs, paychecks for most people have barely budged in real terms.
And out of pocket costs of everything, from health care to prescription drugs to child care to college to caring for aging parents, are all rising a lot faster than wages.
That then is putting a lot of pressure – enormous pressure – on families and their budgets.
My mission from my first day as President to the last will be to raise the incomes of hardworking Americans so they can once again afford a middle class life.
We need to end the wage stagnation that’s holding back our families and holding back our country.
This is the defining economic challenge not only of this election but of our time.
It gets to the core of who we are as a nation – the basic bargain of America. If you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. And when you get ahead, our country gets ahead too.
Last week at the New School, I laid out a broad economic agenda to raise incomes and build an economy that works for everyone, not just those already at the top.
It’s an agenda for strong growth, fair growth, and long-term growth.
And in the days ahead, I will continue outlining plans in all these areas from setting ambitious goals for new infrastructure and clean energy investments to reining in excessive risks on Wall Street.
Today, I want to focus in particular on long-term growth.
Consider this fact: A survey of corporate executives found that more than half would hold off making a successful long-term investment if it meant missing a target in the next quarterly earnings report.
In another recent survey, more than 60% said the pressure to provide short-term returns had increased over the previous five years.
We also know that publicly held companies facing pressure from shareholders are less likely to invest in growth opportunities than their privately-held counterparts.
Large, publicly-held companies now return $8 or $9 out of every $10 they earn directly back to shareholders either in the form of dividends or stock buybacks, which can temporarily boost share prices.
Last year, the total reached a record $900 billion.
That doesn’t leave much money to build a new factory or a research lab or to train workers or to give them a raise.
In fact, according to the Wall Street Journal, between 2003 and 2013, while typical companies in the S&P 500 doubled the share of cash flow they spent on dividends and stock buybacks, they actually cut capital expenditures on things like new plants and equipments.
As the founder of the investment company Vanguard put it, “A culture of short-term speculation has run rampant.”
One other concerned business leader calls it “quarterly capitalism”.
Now, I understand most CEOs are simply responding to very real pressures from shareholders and the market to turn in good quarterly numbers. And investors are always looking for strong reliable returns.
But it is clear that the system is out of balance.
The deck is stacked in too many ways and powerful pressures and incentives are pushing it even further out of balance.
Quarterly capitalism as developed over recent decades is neither legally required nor economically sound.
It’s bad for business, bad for wages, and bad for our economy, and fixing it will be good for everyone.
An increasing number of business leaders, investors, and academics are mobilizing to change the culture of boardrooms, classrooms, and trading floors and to better align incentives for long-term growth.
For the sake of our economy and our country, we need to stand with them.
Innovators like Google and SpaceX are investing in research that does little for today’s bottom line but may yield transformational benefits down the line.
Venture capitalists are patiently nurturing the next disruptive innovator.
The big three automakers and Chrysler are putting the memory of the crisis behind them and are making new investments in factories and technologies of the future, including advanced batteries.
Companies like Trader Joe’s and QuikTrip that have prospered by investing in workers, increasing wages, and improving training are becoming industry models.
And large employers like Target and Starbucks have recently raised wages for entry-level workers, and thanks to pressure from workers, the trend has even extended to McDonald’s and Walmart.
Now, you may have heard that I am a fan of Chipotle and it is not just because of their burrito bowl.
Last month, the company announced it would provide paid sick days, paid vacation time, and tuition reimbursements to its part-time employees.
These are all smart, long-term investments that will and do pay off for companies workers and our society.
And they point to an important question for the future of our economy – how do we define shareholder value in the 21st century?
Is it maximizing immediate returns? Or delivering long-term growth?
Of course, we want to do both.
But today, too often the former comes at the expense of the ladder.
Real value is lasting value. We all know that in our own lives.
I learned it watching my father sweat over the printing table in his small fabric shop in Chicago. He scrimped and saved to build that business and provide for our family’s future.
It wasn’t good enough to be secured for today; what mattered was tomorrow.
And what’s true in life is also true in business.
Real value comes from long-term growth not short-term profits. It comes from building companies, not stripping them, from creating good jobs, not eliminating them, from seeing workers as assets to cultivate not costs to be cut.
American businesses need to break free from the tyranny of today’s earning report so they can do what they do best – innovate, invest, and build tomorrow’s prosperity.
It’s time to start measuring value in terms of years or the next decade not just next quarter.
That is one of the ways we can raise incomes, help families get ahead and deliver real value for shareholders.
Now, there’s no single cause of quarterly capitalism and therefore no single solution. But there are smart specific reforms that can be made by both the private and the public sectors that would better align market incentives for long-term growth – reforms that many forward-thinking business leaders themselves have been calling for.
I’ll mention five areas of focus today but this list should be the beginning of the discussion, not the end.
First, I’m proposing a reform on taxes on capital gains – the profits earned by the sale of stocks and other assets – to promote and reward far-sighted investments.
The current definition of a long-term holding period just one year is woefully inadequate.
That may count as long term for my baby granddaughter but not for the American economy. It’s no way to run a tax system.
So as President, I would move to a six-year sliding scale that provides real incentives for long-term investments.
For taxpayers in the top bracket – families earning more than $465,000 a year – any gains from selling stocks in the first two years would be taxed just like ordinary income. Then the rate would decrease each year until it returns to the current rate.
This means that from the moment investors buy into a company, they’ll be more focused on its future growth strategy than its immediate profit.
And so will some executives who are paid in part with stock or stock options.
I will also be looking at ways to address very short-term trading, whether it’s conducted over days, hours, or even milliseconds.
And we should offer the chance to eliminate capital gains taxes altogether for certain long term investments in small businesses, including innovative start-ups and hard-hit communities, from the inner-city to the rust belt to coal country to Indian country.
This should go hand-in-hand with a revitalized and expanded New Market Tax Credit, which also encourages investments in poor or remote communities and helps prevent downward spirals like economic disruption like plant closings or layoffs.
I want to see more investors helping unlock the potential of the family business struggling to get back on its feet or the start-up that’s on the verge of making it big or the community that lost the factory where generations of families worked but now is eager to build a new future.
That’s long-term growth at its best.
Now, of course, I understand that these changes to the tax code alone will not shift investors’ focus from short-term to long-term overnight. But I believe this reform is an important first step toward removing some of the incentives that push us toward
quarterly capitalism.
And this would be part of a broader reform of both individual and corporate taxes that I will be discussing later in the campaign.
Last week, I called for closing the carried interest loophole and implementing the Buffett, which would make sure millionaires don’t pay lower rates than their secretaries.
And in the months ahead, I’ll address other inequities and loopholes that distort business decisions and rig our tax code for those at the top.
The second area where action is needed is to address the influence of increasingly assertive shareholders determined to extract maximum profit in the minimum amount of time even at the expense of future growth.
Now, so-called activist shareholders can have a positive influence on companies.
It’s a good thing when investors put pressure on management to stay nimble and accountable or press for social and environmental progress.
But that’s very different from these hit-and-run activists whose goal is to force an immediate payout no matter how much it discourages and distracts management from pursuing strategies that would add the most long-term value for the company.
Even iconic businesses like Apple or Proctor and Gamble or Dow Chemical have felt this pressure.
So we need a new generation of committed long-term investors to provide a counterweight to the hit-and-run activists.
Now, some institutional investors already are beginning to push back.
We need more pension funds and proxy advisory firms to do so as well.
Institutional investors control 70% of the shares in the largest 1,000 U.S. companies. They have unmatched influence and therefore an unmatched obligation to guide companies toward strategies and metrics focused on long-term value.
There are things government should do as well.
As President, I would order a full review of regulations on shareholder activism, some of which haven’t been re-examined in decades, let alone modernized to reflect changing realities in our economy.
We also have to take a hard look at stock buybacks.
Investors and regulators alike need more information about these transactions.
Capital markets work best when information is promptly and widely available to all.
Other advanced economies like the United Kingdom and Hong Kong require companies to disclose stock buybacks within one day.
But here in the United States, you can go an entire quarter without disclosing. So let’s change that.
And buybacks lead directly to the third area of focus – reforming executive compensation.
We cannot address the challenge of quarterly capitalism without making sure that incentives for CEOs and other executives are more focused on the long-term growth and strength of the companies they run and less on the short-term fluctuations in its share price.
Now, I am all for rewarding CEOs well when their companies prosper and their employees also share in the rewards.
But there is something wrong when senior executives get rich while companies stutter and employees struggle.
There is something wrong when corporate boards allow exorbitant pay packages that aren’t based on credible assessments of executive performance or a company’s long-term interest.
30 years ago, top CEOs made 50 times what a typical worker did. Today, they make 300 times more.
That just doesn’t make sense. Previous generations of executives were just as talented and hardworking and they managed to get by with much more reasonable compensation.
So have CEOs in other countries. It would be good for our economy and our country if we get back to compensating all employees when productivity and profits increase not just those at the top.
Now, in the 1990s there was an effort to tie executive compensation to company performance, including through the use of stock options.
But many stock-heavy pay packages have created a perverse incentive for executives to seek the big payouts that could come from a temporary rise in share price.
And we ended up encouraging some of the same short-term thinking we meant to discourage.
In addition, while the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation passed in 2010 called for new regulations regarding disclosure of executive compensation, many rules have yet to be put in place. That includes a requirement to publish the ratio between CEO pay and the paychecks of everyday employees.
There is no excuse for taking five years to get this done.
Workers have a right to know whether executive pay at their company has gotten out of balance and so does the public.
Now, we need to take several steps here:
Defend the Dodd-Frank Act from Republican attacks and finally get the promised rules on the books;
Reform the performance-based tax deductions for top executives;
Expand disclosure requirements under the “say on pay” rule to include an explanation of how executive compensation will promote the long-term health of the company.
Now, a crucial fourth area for reform is how we empower workers and make sure they’re seen as the engines of growth that they are.
Research shows that well-paid and well-trained employees tend to work more efficiently, stay on the job longer, and provide better customer service.
But those rewards can be harder to measure than the immediate costs of payroll and training. So under the pressure of quarterly capitalism, they’re often squandered.
Employer-funded job training has fallen by more than one-third in the past two decades even as the premium on skilled workers has increased in a competitive global economy.
And even when training programs do exist, too few are focused on providing broadly applicable sectoral skills.
The decline of unions and worker bargaining power has led to a decline in worker voices and long-term decision making at many companies.
And it’s no surprise that we’ve seen corporate investment in human capital decline as well.
I think we need to start trying to reverse all of these trends.
As President, I will fight to defend workers’ rights and encourage more companies to invest in their employees.
In this campaign, I’ve already proposed a $1,500 apprenticeship tax credit for every new worker that businesses train and hire as well as a plan to encourage more companies to offer generous profit-sharing programs.
I’ve also called for raising the minimum wage and implementing President Obama’s new rules on overtime.
And let me add, I agree with New York’s proposal this week to raise wages for fast food workers to $15 an hour.
The national minimum wage is a floor and it needs to be raised. But let’s also remember that the cost of living in Manhattan is different than in Little Rock and in many other places. So New York or Los Angeles or Seattle are right to go higher.
Now, if we’re going to ask the private sector to invest for the long-term, let’s also face up to the fact that Washington may well be the worst offender of all when it comes to short-term thinking.
And this is the fifth area of reform that is desperately needed. It’s time to end the era of budget brinksmanship in Congress and stop careening from one self-inflicted crisis to another.
That just creates more uncertainty for business, for investors, and for our country.
You know, I’ve been asking a lot of business leaders with whom I have talked. You know, “What are the couple of things you would love to see happen?”
And almost to a person, they always say, “We need more predictability. We have no idea what’s going to come out of Washington. We can deal with whatever does but when we don’t know, when there are stalemates, when there are government shutdowns. That interferes with our business and particularly with our global business, which is kind of an obvious thing to say but I hope people in Washington will pay attention.”
And let’s stop pouring subsidies into industries that are already thriving like the giveaways in the tax code to oil companies and start investing in the future to create millions of more new jobs in the new economy.
We should be making smart investments in infrastructure, innovation, education, and clean energy that will help businesses and entrepreneurs grow and create the next generation of high-paying jobs.
And we know the investments that would be made in these areas have very high returns. There’s no excuse not to make them and to make them now.
For example, we should improve and make permanent the research and experimentation tax credit.
Every few years, Congress has another squabble over whether to renew this credit. They’ve done it 16 times in the past 35 years. Isn’t it time we stop kicking the can down the road and actually got down to doing the people’s business?
And as important as the specific reforms I’ve outlined here are the truth is that the fight against quarterly capitalism cannot be won in Washington alone.
The private sector has to rise to this challenge.
We’re already seeing a movement for change taking shape. Investors, executives, and employees are all starting to step up.
Union leaders are investing their own pension funds in putting people to work to build tomorrow’s clean energy economy and they earn good returns doing that. We need to build on this momentum.
It’s time to return to an old-fashioned idea that companies responsibility to their shareholders also encompasses a responsibility to employees, customers, communities, and ultimately to our country and, yes, our planet.
The strength and legitimacy of American capitalism have always depended on its ability to create opportunities for hardworking families to get ahead, generation after generation. We can’t lose sight of that.
I’m pleased that since 2010, 31 states have enacted legislation authorizing so-called benefit corporations which allow companies to pursue profit and social purpose.
Sen. Mark Warner has suggested that we recognize a new corporate form and reward companies that invest in their workers. That proposal has real merit and we should explore it further.
What’s good for middle class families also happens to be good economics. We know that strong, sustainable growth can only happen when communities are thriving and workers are well-paid.
And after all, our economy is a 70% consumption economy.
It’s that old Henry Ford story when he decided he was going to be paying his worker, as I recall, the princely sum of $5 a day and a lot of his peers really rose up in opposition. “How can you do this? You’re going to throw off the labor market! You’re setting a bad example.” And his response was “I’m building these cars. I need people to buy them.”
Well, our economy is not yet running the way it should in large measure because we’re not putting enough money in the paychecks of enough Americans so that they in turn can be fueling this consumption economy, which not only holds up the American economy but holds up the global economy.
It’s everyone’s interest including corporate America’s to contribute to a vibrant middle class and rising incomes.
Now, as President, I won’t try to impose a one-size fits all solution. But I will use the power – the convening power of the office – to bring all relevant parties together to help move our corporate culture towards solid, long-term growth and investment.
Just imagine how different our history would have been if short-termism had dominated earlier eras the way it does today.
What if an activist hedge fund had persuaded AT&T to maximize cash flow and close Bell Labs before the transistor or the laser was invented there?
What if Xerox had decided its Palo Alto research park wasn’t doing enough to boost share prices in the short-term? A young Steve Jobs would have never visited and the personal computer revolution might not have happened.
What if congressional budget cuts had shut down DARPA – the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency – before it developed the early Internet?
Today, we face a choice between the future and the past.
Republicans running for President seem totally unconcerned about the problem of quarterly capitalism.
In fact, their policies would make it worse.
Most would eliminate capital gains for wealthy investors with no incentives for long-term holdings.
They’d wipe out the new rules on Wall Street imposed after the crisis.
And of course, they’d further strip worker rights and weekend bargaining power.
Indeed their approach to government mirrors the worst tendencies of hit and run shareholders, demanding quick payouts in the forms of tax breaks for the wealthy at the expense of investing in the future.
They ignore long-term challenges like climate change, poverty and inequality, failing infrastructure.
Just look at the current mess in Congress with the highway bill.
We can’t afford to return to the same out-of-touch out-of-date policies that had wrecked our economy before.
We have to work together to drive strong growth, fair growth, and long-term growth.
That’s the only way we will renew the basic bargain of America. You know it – if you work hard, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead and when you do, America gets ahead too.
It’s the only way we’re going to build an America economy for tomorrow, not yesterday.
I invite you to join me in this discussion. I’m looking for new, creative, innovative, disruptive ideas that will save capitalism for the 21st century because it is the greatest engine of economic opportunity and potential that has ever been invented.
It’s one of the great accomplishments of the American political and economic history. It created the opportunity that some many generations of Americans took advantage of and that led to the middle class, the extraordinary economic accomplishment of our country.
And as we’ve had to do in previous eras, it needs to be re-invented. It needs to be put back into balance.
It needs to recognize that we really are all in this together and the better we all do, the more there will be for everybody to share in, to invest in, to profit from.
So I ask you and particularly here at Stern – the students, the faculty and others – who are studying business help us think through the best ways to change the culture to move it back where it used to be, which was much more focused on long-term investing, with the results of extraordinary prosperity that we enjoyed for decades.
We have new challenges from technology and globalization and other big problems on the horizon, like climate change, for example.
But that is what we are best at doing in this country. We are problem solvers, not problem deniers. We roll up our sleeves. We get to work and we keep moving forward.
It is always all about tomorrow.
Love that song – “Don’t stop thinking about tomorrow”.
So help me think about it and let’s make it happen.
Thank you all very much!
…We want people to be able to fulfill their responsibilities but we don’t want it to be so hard that the debt they carry interferes with them being able to start a small business or to buy a home or even to be able to get married, which unfortunately is the case today.
…Now, this election is about the choices we make as a country. And those choices will shape our future for our children and our grandchildren.
I’ve always believed that in America if you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. That is the basic bargain that has always set our country apart.
I want to make sure that we strengthen that bargain and that it holds true for the next generation and the next and the next.
Now, thanks to the hard work of people across America, our country has come back from the worst recession of our lifetimes.
So we’re standing again but we’re not running the way that we should.
Corporate profits are near record highs but most paychecks have barely budged. Costs for everything from child care to prescription drugs have also gone up. They are rising faster than wages.
It’s no wonder that many Americans feel like the deck is stacked in favor of those at the top.
So we’ve got to do better. We’ve got to get incomes rising again so more hardworking families can afford a middle class life.
That is the central economic challenge of our time, and it will be my mission everyday that I serve as President.
We need strong growth. We need fair growth. We need long-term growth.
We want a new era of prosperity that is shared by all, that works for everyone.
So today, I want to talk about one of the most important ways we can ease the burden on families and one of the single biggest ways we can actually raise incomes by making college affordable and available to every American.
Now, for many millions of Americans, a college has been the ticket to a better life.
My grandfather worked his entire life in the lace mills in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He started as a teenager. He retired at 65.
But he always believed by working that hard, all those hours, that life would be better for his children.
And my dad made it to college, made it to Penn State, made it to the football team back in the ’30s.
And then when he got out, he was able to start his own small business. He worked really hard. He scrimped and he saved.
But that made a huge difference in our lives.
Then my parents saved for years for college. They knew that that would be one of the ways that they could set me on a path to a better future.
College still holds that promise. A lot has changed in our country but that hasn’t.
Parents who never had the chance to go to college themselves like my mother dreamed of seeing their children get that degree literally from the moment they are born. That’s what they’re hoping for. That’s why they emphasize the importance of education.
High schoolers, even middle schoolers, are taking college prep courses today. Some are even studying for the SAT.
Full-time workers are taking courses online even if that means heading straight from an eight-hour shift to a pile of homework. If that’s what it takes to get a better job to give their kids better than they had, they will do it.
But here’s the problem: States are slashing education budgets and colleges keep raising prices.
In-state tuition and fees for public colleges increased by 42% between 2004 and 2014. Whose incomes raised 42%?
So, families are left with a very painful choice. Either you say, “We can’t afford it”, postpone or even pass up the opportunities that a degree offers. Or you do whatever you can to pay for it even if that means going deeply into debt.
Now, for most people, the return on investment of a college degree is still worth it, and I want to emphasize that. On average, people with four-year degrees earn over a half a million dollars more over their careers than people with high school degrees.
But student debt increasingly holds people back. 40 million Americans have student loans. Together, they owe $1.2 trillion.
And New Hampshire students, as we’ve heard, are carrying one of the highest debt loads in the country.
Now, millions of Americans are delinquent or in default. Even if they do everything they can, they just can’t keep up.
I was just talking to some young people back before I came out and, you know, one was saying “You know, it’s a real stretch. I just hope I never get sick. I just hope I don’t get laid off from my job. I just hope there’s not a family emergency.”
So, yes, people are doing everything possible to pay those loans, but sometimes life and fate intervene.
Now, the cost of this debt is real and not just on balance sheets but in people’s lives and future.
When I talk to young people here in New Hampshire, they tell me they put off buying homes or changing jobs or starting a business.
I met one young woman in the back who has a great job in Massachusetts. She can’t afford to live there. So she commutes two hours each way to live with her parents because she otherwise can’t make it work – to have that job, starting off in her career and to pay back her debts.
I have met parents and grandparents who have co-signed loans and ended up draining their savings or ruining their credit because they tried to help the next generation.
There are students who take out loans to pay for an expensive degree from a for-profit institution only to find little support once they actually enroll or they graduate and discover that when it comes to getting the jobs they were promised, their degree is not worth what they thought.
Then there are the students who start college but never finish. They’re left with debt and no degree to show for it. The worst of both worlds. Over 40% of college students still haven’t graduated after six years and many never do.
It’s time to show some tough love to colleges and universities that let significant numbers of students fall behind and drop out year after year.
Here’s the bottom line: College is supposed to help people achieve their dreams but more and more paying for college actually pushes those dreams further and further out of reach. That is a betrayal of everything college is supposed to represent.
And you know, it’s also about whether or not America creates the greatest workforce in the world in this century just like we did in the last century.
The rest of the world, make no mistake about it, is working as hard as they can to outdo us.
China is on a path to double the number of students enrolled in college by 2030, which means they’ll have nearly 200 million college graduates – more than our entire workforce.
Now, I believe American workers can out work and out innovate anybody in the world if given the training and education they deserve.
So, that’s why today I’m proposing it’s time for a new college compact where everyone does their part. We need to make a quality education affordable and available to everyone willing to work for it without saddling them with decades of debt.
As I’ve been talking with people, I’ve certainly reached out to students and families, educators, legislators, experts, including young, progressive activists who put the issue of debt free college and affordability at the top of the agenda.
Today, I’m announcing my plan to put college within reach for everyone. We’re calling it the New College Compact. We’re posting it on our website, Facebook, Medium, SnapChat, just about everywhere we can think of.
Or you can text the word “College” to the number 47246 to learn more.
I hope you’ll check it out.
But for now, here are the basics.
Under the New College Compact, no student should have to borrow to pay tuition at a public college or university.
Schools will have to control their costs and show more accountability to their students.
No more 42% increases over 10 years – way above the rate of inflation of anything else.
States will have to meet their obligations to invest in higher education.
The federal government will increase its investment in education and will not profit any longer off of student loans.
And everyone who already has student debt will be able to refinance it at lower rates.
Now, this is my plan and I know it’s ambitious. But I think we should be ambitious because it’s also achievable and it would make a big difference in people’s lives.
The New College Compact comes down to two big goals.
First, we will make sure that cost won’t be a barrier. Under my plan, tuition will be affordable for every family. Students should not have to take out loans for tuition at their state’s public colleges and universities.
And we will make sure the federal government and the states step up to help pay the cost so the burden doesn’t fall on families alone.
But here is an important additional point I want to underscore about my compact.
Tuition these days is not the only problem. The cost of living and attending college has also been increasing.
So under my plan, students who qualify for Pell Grants will be freed up to use them for living expenses and middle class students will [inaudible audio]…for living expenses as well.
We’re also going to make community college free. That’s President Obama’s plan and we’re adopting it.
If students [start in community] college and transfer to a four-year school, we will make sure that your credits count and your transition is seamless.
And we want more community colleges to offer two-year degrees and certificate programs that are valued by employers so students know that if they do the work, they are in good shape to get a job.
We will work closely with the historically black colleges and universities and with Hispanic-serving institutions because they serve a lot of very bright and needy students.
We’ll offer special help to college students who are already parents because when you help parents get an education, you’re also helping their children.
And we’ll make a promise to students who perform national service. If you are willing to spend years tutoring America’s kids or cleaning up our parks or helping communities hit by disasters, we will guarantee that you can attend your public university or college debt-free.
So that’s the first big goal, and here’s the second: We will make sure that debt won’t hold anyone back.
So for the millions of Americans, including many of you who already have student debt, my plan will give you the chance to refinance at lower interest rates.
It just makes sense. If you can refinance your mortgage or your car loan, you should be able to refinance your student loan too.
It is just wrong that people are locked into college loans at 8%, 9% or even 10% interest.
Now, if you do end up taking out a loan, for example, to go to a private college, we will cut your interest rates so that the government never makes a profit off your loan.
And we will make it easier for you to enroll in income-based repayment programs so you’ll never have to pay more than 10% of what you make.
And your debt will only last for a fixed period of time. It will not hang over your head forever.
We are also going to help borrowers who are in default get back on their feet to meet their obligations.
And we will make sure colleges and universities have more skin in the game. If they load students up with debt for programs that don’t lead to good-paying jobs, students and taxpayers should not be the only ones left holding the bag. The colleges deserve a certain amount of the responsibility and they will have to fulfill it.
And we will crack down on predatory schools, lenders, and bill collectors. If you defraud students, over-charge veterans or mislead borrowers, we’re going to do everything we can to hold you accountable and stop you.
I also want to strengthen the GI Bill so more veterans can get their degree.
And I want to make sure that colleges spend federal dollars on things that benefit students like teaching and research not marketing campaigns or big salaries for administrators.
And finally, I want to encourage innovation. You know, people are increasingly rebooting their careers through online programs, yet many students can’t use federal student aid to pay for those programs.
If earning online badges, specializations, or nano-degrees help people improve their job prospects, we should make that option easier and more affordable.
And under my plan, more students will be allowed to use student aid to pay for high quality programs, particularly online, and we will make sure that rules about accreditation don’t keep out promising online education companies. We want to keep quality high without stifling innovation.
Now, the reason I call this a college compact is because it goes both ways. Everyone is going to have to step up.
We can’t solve the problem of rising costs and rising debt just by throwing more money at the problem.
We can’t expect the federal government just to pay the bill for free. That’s not how America works.
States will have to start investing in education again. Colleges will have to do better by their students. Students will have to make a contribution of working 10 hours a week. Americans will have to work hard to put themselves through school to out-learn and out-hussle our competitors just like we’ve always had.
So, from my perspective, this is just common sense.
If you’re going to hear people in this campaign talk to you about improving the economy, helping incomes rise, then ask them what they’re going to do to make college affordable and begin to deal with the debt burden that is holding too many Americans back.
I want every young person in America to know that if you work hard, you can get ahead and I want America to have your back, just like it did in the past, just like so many of us believe.
I had a loan to go to law school. It was a government loan. It was at a very low interest rate, and I paid it back as a percentage of my income over time. So did my husband. We both worked hard. We worked all the time. Extra jobs. Extra opportunities to earn some money in order to pay our way.
But that help from our government made a huge difference.
So I’m asking people – you’ve got to keep doing your part. You’ve got to work hard. You have to do everything you can to make your contribution but then we should have your back.
I want every parent to know that his or her child can get a degree or you can get one yourself.
That’s the country I want to help build for this generation and all generations to come, and I look forward to talking to you about it right now.
Thank you all. Thank you so much. Thank you all…
And I feel very strongly about this. Some of you have heard me talk about it before. Because we can do everything I’ve just outlined and get more kids into afforable college and get the debt load down and we can do a lot to work with great schools like this and others to really help more kids succeed. But those zero to five years set the pattern and too many kids come to school behind already.
And this is not something that I’m saying just because I care deeply about it and I’m a new grandmother and I’m reading, talking, and singing all the time to Charlotte. It’s because the brain research shows that. 80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of three.
And kids who are stimulated, kids who have good early childhood programs, kids whose families who have the time, the energy, and the understanding how to help prepare their own kids, they’ll do well.
But we know also from the research that by the time kids get to kindergarten, kids like my granddaughter will have heard 30 million more words than children from less advantaged backgrounds. And so the achievement gap will literally start on the first day of kindergarten.
And for those of you who are teachers, and I hope we have a lot of teachers here, you understand this. You know you’ll do your very, very best in the classroom and in the school and try to help every kid fulfill his or her God-given potential but it would be a lot more successful if we had universal pre-K and good early childhood in our country.
And the second yes is both as a First Lady, as a Senator, and a Secretary of State, I worked very hard on the Millenium Development Goals. I worked very hard to make sure that our country, which is such a generous country, did what we could to help the smallest, most vulnerable of children.
And we have made progress, as you know. We have made progress in the last 15 years. We’ve got more kids into school and into elementary school. We’ve cut the infant mortality rate. We’ve cut the maternal mortality rate. We’ve made progress.
But we still have too many places in our world where kids die too young, where they are stunted from poor nutrition, where they are not given an adequate education.
And I have made this point. I write about it in my book about my four years as Secretary of State. I’ve made it in many speeches around the world.
I believe what the United States does both through our government and through our philanthropy and our faith communities and individual charities is just astonishing.
You know, we are a generous, caring nation, and we have to recognize that it really has made a difference – the work that Americans have done around the world.
And I started a program when I was Secretary of State called Feed the Future and it really does represent my views. It became one of President Obama’s biggest initiatives.
You know, I think it’s far better to help people learn how to feed themselves, to plant and grow their crops, to create a market economy around those crops than to always have to be providing emergency food aid.
And so what we did with Feed the Future was to create more opportunities to go after malnutrition.
Now, we still have emergency help for malnourished children. But we also are doing more to help people have the tools to help themselves and help their kids.
And a problem you didn’t mention but one which I will just throw in here is clean water. We have a billion people in the world without access to clean, safe drinking water.
So these are not only important charitable opportunities. They’re also economic opportunities because we have great NGOs and we have great companies in America who are really good at knowing how to do this. And if we can continue to link up our public and private sector in dealing with some of these problems, I think we’ll go far in meeting your goals.
So, thank you for raising that.
You know, a lot of people have big arguments over the right things to do but they often don’t reference the massive amounts of evidence that we have about what works.
And you’ve just put your finger on one thing that really works: Kids who don’t have the opportunity to – many of us try to provide for our own children over the summer – actually lose ground.
So you can work really hard all year as the student, as the family that supports the student, and particularly as the teacher, and then you’ve got three months.
And other kids like you rightly say, like your nieces or nephews, they’re going to museums, they’re going on interesting trips. Maybe they’re watching movies with their family that they talk about. There’s a lot of stimulation going on.
And we know that a longer school year, summer programs, a longer school day are especially helpful in closing that achievement gap between kids that don’t have all the opportunities that you’re talking about and kids who do.
So honestly, a good summer program can make a huge difference, and I think that’s something that districts should look at, particularly for kids that might not otherwise have good alternatives during the summer time.
Thank you for raising that.
And part of it is because I really believe in service and I believe in service either – national service or military service. Some service that a young person can do to give back to our country…
You know, I mean, we are not always being smart about how to make better investments that will save us money.
So kids who are in school who have some of kind of medical or health issue, if it’s not taken care of, it very often can interfere with their learning. I’ve seen that over many years in the work that I’ve done with the Children’s Defense Fund and the Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families.
You know, kids who don’t know they can’t hear, don’t know they aren’t seeing well, have abscessed teeth that really interfere with concentration – just problems that you know most of us have not, thankfully, had to experience.
So we have a lot of kids who show up in school with health problems and we have steadily cut back on a nurse or some kind of health care program.
And you’re so right. Look, I am so grateful to philanthropies that pay to send a nurse to 10 schools. But we have like 10,000 schools. So how do we get services that will help kids actually be healthy and do as well in school as they can. And the only way to do that is to have a much more supportive program from the government, from the local, state, federal level.
But you see, I know that this saves money in the long run. You know, when people say “Well, yeah, but then we’ve got to put a nurse in every school.” Well, you could have a nurse covering two or three schools. You can do that.
But the point is what’s the alternative? Sick kids who don’t do well, who oftentimes then will drop out because they are behind, who will never live up to their potential, who very well might become a burden – a financial burden – in some respects on the rest of us.
I mean, we have to get smart about how we spend our hard-earned money so that we actually get the best results…
Thank you for raising that issue because I hear about it across the country. People are very concerned about the lack of health care continuity.
Now that we’ve got the Affordable Care Act and more kids are eligible for treatment, we at least have a funding stream to take care of problems that are identified.
Oftentimes, now the issue is how do we get them identified. You know, who is going to be on that front lines. And a child spends, you know, seven, eight hours a day in school, that’s a great place to identify those problems and then to refer them and treat the ones that can be treated inexpensively and in the school site.
So thank you for that.
…
Look, I really think we’ve got to do more to deal with these vulnerable groups of kids, and I would just maybe list a couple of them.
Kids in juvenile facilities. You know, a lot of kids – they make a mistake and then they’re put in a facility where often they get worse, not better, where often they don’t get adequate education. They often don’t even get adequate nutrition, exercise, anything else. And then we turn them out and we wait for them to do something worse because what do you know – they’ve never really been given the support they need to do any better and they don’t see much of the future.
The foster care system. You know, in so many places, you’re in foster care until you graduate from high school or turn 18, whichever is first. And I’ve worked on foster care issues for a really long time, going back to my Children’s Defense Fund days. And I’ve defended foster care kids. I’ve advocated for legal changes as First Lady, worked across the aisle to get some changes to help foster kids.
But it just still breaks my heart because I don’t know how many of you have ever known foster kids but I’ve known a lot of them, and so many of them just need some support and some permanence and some predictability.
And then along comes the age of 18 and in some places in our country, the social worker shows up, puts everything they own in a black garbage bag and says “You’re on your own.”
Now, if they’ve turned 18 and they’re in the middle of high school, if they’re lucky enough the foster family says “Stay here until you graduate”. Sometimes they’re not and they’re literally sent out the door.
I mean, I’ve had to help and intervene as a Senator and with other people to help kids who were sleeping in bus stations who wanted to finish school and had nowhere to go.
I’ve talked to foster kids who by the most intense effort got themselves into college but then you know when everyone else goes home for Thanksgiving or Christmas, they have nowhere to go and the dorms close. What’s going to happen to them?
I mention this because we can never forget that as challenging as it is for many people right now economically – and it is – there are groups of people, particularly children and young people in our country, who are really in trouble.
So I want to do what we can to do more to help them and I will look for ways to do that.
So, we will follow up with you.
Now, from everything I’ve ever seen, a majority of Americans and a majority of gun owners support universal background checks.
And part of the challenge is to overcome a very entrenched special interest that does not represent, as I say, the majority of Americans or the majority of gun owners to get, number one,  a background check that actually works.
And we have too many glitches in it right now. That’s how the young man who massacred the nine people in Charleston at their Bible study – he should never have gotten a gun. And they didn’t get all the information in and there’s a three-day limit, and he got the gun and we know how he used it.
I feel very strongly about this. You know, I just don’t think there is a kind of contradiction that some on the other side tried to argue on behalf of the Second Amendment with sensible gun violence prevention measures and protecting people’s right to bear arms.
And I will take that on.
Look, I know that it’s politically challenging but at some point, we have to regain our senses.
Our country lasted for a really long time and in fact it was only relatively recently that Supreme Court decisions began to reinterpret the Second Amendment.
And you know, what about the rest? What about the young mom with her two kids who was in a supermarket and some guy gets to come in with, you know, an AK-47 over his back because he’s got a new permit that permits him to walk around and threaten and intimidate and scare the heck out of that young mother and her children. I don’t get it.
So we have work to do. We have a lot of work to do. And it’s good work. It’s important work.
…
And among the list of things I would like to see done is de-emphasizing layers upon layers of administration and re-emphasizing teaching.
And part of the problem here, I have been meeting a number of young people – Ph.D.s – in areas of scarcity who – they’re not being hired, they’re not being put on a tenure track because the university says “Well, we don’t have any space for you.” And they’re making $22,000, $24,000 a year – barely enough. Well, they certainly can’t pay off their debts and they’re having a very hard time supporting their families.
So I think somehow our values and priorities got out of whack.
And I can’t speak to any particular college or university, but I’ve heard enough stories to believe that we could do a better job streamlining the top, saving money, and putting money into faculty, particularly young faculty, because it’s the young faculty that are being most disadvantaged by either not being hired or not being paid adequately so that they can’t really do the job that they have dreamed of doing.
So I’m with you on that. We’ve got to see how we can make that work.
That’s good for us. That’s good for our economy. That’s good for our democracy.
So I do want to make sure we do what we can and it will have to be a partnership because it’s a partnership between governments, the private sector, academic institutions, charities, faith-based groups, and a lot of other really important partners.
I’ll tell you a little story that your question kind of prompted in me.
I’ve been – when I was Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries for you and there were a lot of places that were still developing, that were very poor.
One of the reasons why I worked hard to create an opening to Burma – now called Myanmar – is because it’s very strategically located but it also has been so isolated for so long.
And it was apparent that under military dictatorship, the very top – sounds familiar – the very top had done very well, and there was no middle class, and there was just different degrees of poverty.
And when you see that and you realize how vulnerable people are to disease and to other both health and educational problems, you know, it really does give you a great perspective on how blessed and fortunate we are and how we have to keep investing in our own people, we have to keep doing better because we have so much to be grateful for and we have to offer it to our next generation.
And I think when you look at the world from that perspective, I didn’t go anywhere in the world that people didn’t want to know what was happening in America. And even those who would publicly criticize us were really interested in how we were solving problems.
And given the fact that President Obama became President and he asked me to become Secretary of State amidst of a terrible economic crisis, you know, there was a lot of anxiety about the United States economy because it’s still is the basic driver of what happens in the world.
And I could see people say “Boy, it’s so for the United States to get it right. You have to get it right. You have to keep holding up the banner of freedom and opportunity and equality for everybody because without you we’re really going to be lost.”
I think that is true. I just have to tell you. You know, people who say “The years for American leadership are behind us” – first of all, I think they’re wrong. But secondly, the alternative to American leadership is not somebody else’s leadership. It’s nobody’s leadership. And that would be a very dangerous development in the world where you don’t have the values, the interests, the ability to bring people together to solve problems that we have basically led for the last century and need to do again.
So your question – what can we do about kids living far away – is connected to how well we take care of our kids right here today because we can only be as strong as our economy is, our people’s dreams and aspirations are, and that’s why in this campaign, what I’m trying to argue for is to build on what makes America great and make it even greater so that our best days are ahead of us, not behind us.
But that causes us to have to ask ourselves hard questions about what we’re going to do and how we’re going to do it. I think we’re up to it. I wouldn’t be running for President if I didn’t think we were up to it.
We have deep, unaddressed, systemic race and justice issues, and it’s important that we honestly talk about them and try to bring the country together around dealing with them.
It’s not enough just to say we’re concerned; we have to take the next step and say we’re so concerned, here’s what we’re going to do.
And from my perspective, there are a number of proposals that I have been talking about from the very beginning of my campaign.
One is we have to take a hard look at mass incarceration because it has been – it has unfortunately been one of the root reasons why so many families, particularly African-American families, are torn apart, undermined, never formed.
And there is no doubt – there is just no doubt – look, nobody wants to return to lack of safety or rising crime. So let’s just posit that. Nobody wants that.
But the evidence is clear that if you’re an African-American man of whatever age – teenager, up – you are more likely to be arrested, to be convicted, to be imprisoned for doing exactly the same thing as a white man who will not be. And that is not – that is not something that anybody wrote down in a law. That is just something that has grown up over time where people make those decisions.
And we have to do a better job working with law enforcement, working with the entire criminal justice system so that the system and individual police officers respect the communities and the communities they serve respect them. And there is a lot of work that we’re going to have to do.
I mean, some of the – what I proposed – body cameras, that’s a way of at least holding people accountable. But there needs to be more training, more awareness of people’s own individual feelings or maybe biases. So we have a lot of work to do.
And I think these terrible incidents of the past year – they go way back – but certainly in the headlines of the past year, really call on everybody and every community just to say “Hey, we need to do a very clear assessment about where we stand.”
You know, let’s rid ourselves of bias and prejudice and discrimination. Let’s make sure our police officers are well-prepared for the difficult jobs we ask them to do. Let’s try to work with communities so that they can provide more support and opportunities for young people, particularly young men.
We have a lot of work to do. But we can’t do that work if we don’t admit we have a problem. And I think we have a problem and we’re going to have to do it. And yes, of course, black lives matter. There is no doubt about it.
No financial aid, all of it loans, with a variable rate interest that they kicked up on you.
Well, you are going to be helped by my plan. I can tell you that.
Because we are going to be able to refinance all of your debt to bring it down to where the interest rate is right now.
Now, who did you borrow from? Were those government loans or private loans?
So you have government loans plus three private ones. Well, all of them can be refinanced.
And we have taken into account – you know, when we did the numbers on this, the way we will pay for it is by closing the loopholes and the deductions for people at the top.
And we will go – in one instance, we will go back to where it was when President Reagan was in office, which you know I think the Republicans should love and embrace.
And we will take the money that we save from closing those, and then we will use it to do exactly what I said to refinance loans – 40 million people; you’re one of them who have those loans that desperately need refinancing.
I mean, you’re a good-looking young man. You ought to be out in the world making your way and I hope you can be. And I know how challenging it is for you to have those kinds of debts and be back at home after you have finished your education.
So, we want to refinance loans and then we want to make it more affordable on the front end so that people don’t end up where you are.
I also want to put a limit of the number of years because at some point, it is just counter-productive for you to keep working to pay off debt instead of working to build a business, to build a family, to buy a home, to help the economy in other ways.
So we’re going to help.
Thank you all very much. Thank you.

You know, violence has no place in our streets, and we should all be working for peace and justice there and everywhere in our country.
I’d like to make two quick points and then take your questions.
First, in announcing my plan to put college within reach for everyone – the new college compact – I am emphasizing the two parts to this compact.
No family and no student should have to borrow to pay tuition at a public college or university.
And everyone who has student debt should be able to refinance it at lower rates.
Costs won’t be a barrier and debt won’t hold you back under my plan.
I wanted to make this announcement here in New Hampshire because students carrying one of the highest debt burdens in the country – nearly $33,000 for average graduates of four-year colleges but obviously much more as we heard from the last young man that I called on.
And the cost of community college here is twice what is paid, you know, next door in Maine.
Gov. [Maggie] Hassan is working to reverse the dramatic decline in state investment in higher education that has shifted the cost onto students and families. But that’s only the beginning of what needs to be done and certainly the federal government has to be a partner in moving this compact forward.
So, I’m looking forward to discussing this further tomorrow, then next week in Iowa and elsewhere.
Second, I want to add my voice to all those who have expressed outrage and disappointment about the decision last week by the Executive Council to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood in New Hampshire.
It’s appalling that three men sitting in the chambers of the Executive Council would deny women across this state the health care they need and deserve.
It shows yet again why we need more leaders like Gov. Hassan and Sen. Shaheen who are willing to stand up for women and just how out of touch and out of date Republican leaders are.
That’s what we saw at the debate on Thursday night.
None of the candidates offered solutions for how to make college affordable or how to raise incomes for hardworking families. They don’t even talk about the real pressures facing American families.
And while what Donald Trump said about Megyn Kelly is outrageous, what the rest of the Republicans are saying about all women is also outrageous. They brag about slashing women’s health care funding. They say they would force women who’ve been raped to carry their rapist’s child.
And we don’t hear any of them supporting raising the minimum wage, paid leave for new parents, access to quality child care, equal pay for women or anything else that will help to give women a chance to get ahead.
Megan Kelly is a strong woman and more than capable of defending herself against Donald Trump. I’m worried about what Republican policies would do to the rest of America’s women, and I will continue to speak out and speak out about that today and through the rest of this campaign and the White House.
I’m going to show up for the debates as they are scheduled and I look forward to having a robust, good opportunity to exchange views with my fellow candidates.
But I think if we focus on that, we’re making a mistake.
What a lot of the men on that stage and that debate said was offensive.
And I want people to understand if you just focus on maybe the biggest showman on the stage, you lose the thread here.
The thread is that the Republicans are putting some very radical and offensive positions when it comes to women’s lives, women’s reproductive health, women’s employment, women’s opportunities.
So I think we’ll let the Republicans go back and forth with each other. But I want to point out there really is not that much difference in the policies that they are proposing when it comes to American women.
So, the language may be more colorful and more offensive, but the thinking, the attitude toward women is very much the same. It’s just delivered in a different package.
So I don’t want people to be confused here about the outrageous comments by one and just say “We’re focused on this and we’re going to let the fact that there should be no exceptions for rape or incest go unnoticed or unmentioned”. I’m not going to let that happen.
But I just want to remind us that what they say about women – not one woman who is perfectly capable and incredibly impressive, able to take care of herself – but all these women that I have fought for, worked for, stood up for, advocated for and want to be a President for who may not have the opportunity to defend themselves, who may lose the right to exercise a personal choice if certain of the Republicans were to be successful, I don’t want that forgotten.
So yes, it makes great TV. I think the guy went way overboard. Offensive, outrageous. Pick your adjective.
But what Marco Rubio said has as much of an impact in terms of where the Republican Party is today as anybody else on that stage, and it is deeply troubling and it should be to the press, not just to those of us who’ve been doing this work for so long.
I’m a strong advocate for nurses and I look forward to working with them when I’m President.
I hope that people running for Congress both the House and the Senate will latch onto it because I want to get more Democrats elected. That would be a big help toward to dealing with the issues you’re raising.
I also want to make it clear that what I’m advocating just as what President Obama advocated goes to back to what President Reagan – what the status was under President Reagan.
I want them to have to answer to the American people why they don’t want to make college more affordable and why they don’t want to refinance college debt.
This has to be a choice. And so what we’re doing is we’re setting up our side of the choice. We’re setting up, you know, the proposal that I’m making. And then I’m going to be looking to see what their response is and then let’s have an election about it and let’s have an election about real choices that will actually affect people’s lives. That’s what I’m interested in.
And once I get to the White House, I will do what I’ve always done when I worked across the aisle as a Senator, worked with Republicans when I was Secretary of State and First Lady. I will work very, very hard to put together the votes that are needed to try to get this passed. Because I think there will be a huge constituency for it.
If you look at some of what Sen. Lamar Alexander has been advocating, I have been looking for ideas from Republicans as well as Democrats. That’s where I get a lot of the thoughts about accountability for colleges and risk sharing. So if you’re going to pretend to educate people and they’re not employable, then you have to pay a price for that.
And I think Sen. Alexander, who I’ve known since he was a governor, I think he and I would have a great conversation about that. He has to do what he has to do between now and the election but I think there’d be an opportunity to work together and I would look forward to it.
Thank you all.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
…I’ve said in the past that I used a single account for convenience. Obviously these years later, it doesn’t look so convenient.
But the facts are the same as they have been from the beginning of these questions being raised.
And most importantly, I never sent classified material on my email and I never received any that was marked classified.
So I’m going to let whatever this inquiry is go forward, and we’ll await the outcome of it. The State Department has just confirmed what I just said to you.
But I do think that if you look at the Republicans in Congress, the ones running for President, there is an unfortunate tendency to try to make partisan a tragedy in Benghazi, which I just fundamentally disagree with. I don’t think it’s right, and I will not participate in it.
So we’ll see how this all plays out. But it’s not anything that people talk to me about as I travel around the country. It is never raised in my town halls. It is never raised in my other meetings with people.
I think what people are interested in is what Sen. [Tom] Harkin just said – you know, who’s going to get the economy moving to create more good-paying jobs, who’s going to get the cost of college down and refinance people’s student debt, who’s going to open up the workforce to women and people with disability so they can make their contributions and be treated fairly, and so much more. And that’s what I talk about in the campaign.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
No, it’s not. I think that this is the usual partisanization – which I may have just made up a word – of anything that goes on, and I’ve been at this for a really long time. And I think people in Iowa just like people across the country are going to want to vote for somebody that they believe will deliver results for them. And I think I’ve got a very strong case to make on that, as Tom just said.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
No, we’re fully cooperating with that. But I’m saying the way it’s being used certainly is.
And the State Department has confirmed that I did not send or received materials marked classified.
This is not about me. They have also confirmed that.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
You know, that is something that they will have to determine. And I think there are disputes going on among agencies about what shoulda, coulda, woulda been done back…five, six years ago. That is something for them to work out. [Inaudible]
…I did not send nor did I receive material marked classified.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I have stated, I find it somewhat curious that Jeb Bush is doubling down on defending his brother’s actions in Iraq. But if he’s going to do that, he should present the entire picture.
And the entire picture, as you know, includes the agreement that George W. Bush made with the Maliki government in Iraq that set the end of 2011 as the date to withdrawal American troops. That was done under George W. Bush.
And I can only wonder whether he just either did not know that or thought that other people would not be reminded of that.
So, it is for him to make whatever case he wishes on behalf of his own campaign. But there’s clearly a very direct line between the agreement George W. Bush signed and the efforts that the Obama administration made, which I was a part, to persuade the Maliki government to permit continuing American support for the Iraqi Army to make sure that the investment in its training would pay off. And Maliki did not want a continuing American presence.
Now, I think what is being done with respect to ISIS is very significant in terms of the support that the United States is now providing to the Iraqi Army to re-train because of what Maliki did to really start to erode its abilities, to support the Kurds, try to get the Sunnis back into the fight against ISIS. But this has to be an Iraqi-led mission.
And like anybody who has followed the horrific, barbaric behavior of ISIS, I am very committed to supporting the efforts within the region to try to take on the threat that they pose to everyone but particularly to women and especially to women of certain religious backgrounds. And it’s an area that is so deeply distressing to read about what’s going on there.
So I think we have to do more and I hope we will do more to try to get the whole region together to drive ISIS out of the territory they occupy, to rescue the people that they have enslaved, predominately women.
But I think that President Obama is doing what he can to try to bring that about.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
I’m just having a good time. You know, we’re only four months into this. I feel very positive about the organization we’re building here in Iowa and across the country, particularly in the early states.
And it’s mostly for me a continuing conversation with the American people. And I’m enjoying it, getting a lot out of it, learning a lot about it.
You know, I’ll just give you a quick example of why I find this so personally rewarding.
Yesterday in Dubuque, a woman said that she was there because of the Hall of Fame dinner I talked about mental health. The reason I talk about mental health is because when I came to Iowa four months ago, people talked to me about mental health.
So I want to have this continuing conversation about what’s on the minds of Iowans and Americans, and I will fight as hard as I can to earn every vote here and across the country.
…What I’m about to talk about – the agenda that I am putting forth for rural America – is very much in line with Tom [Vilsack] here in Iowa and what he is doing at the Department of Agriculture. And I am honored to have his friendship and his support in this campaign.
Tom and I just had the chance to see just some of the impressive work being done here to train the next generation of farmers, innovators, tool and die makers, machinists – you name it – leaders for rural Iowa.
I wanted to come to DMACC [Des Moines Area Community College] to offer my ideas about what we can do to improve the world economy.
And as Tom said, I know it’s a little unusual for a presidential candidate perhaps to be making a speech about this at a community college instead of in front of a barn or a bale of hay. But we did get a tractor. So at least we’re in the theme here.
But I wanted to emphasize the changing face of rural Iowa and rural America.
Education, innovation, technology – Iowans are in the future business. That’s what all Americans should be in.
Just look at the way that you have seized opportunities from wind energy to biofuels to think about talking to a farmer who is as attuned to fluctuations in foreign markets as any Wall Street trader.
Or spend a few minutes eating with some of the students here at DMACC like Tom and I just did – they are full of energy and ideas and excitement about what their training and education will mean for them in the future.
I want America to be in the future business too.
And I believe a strong America depends on strong rural communities.
Now, for prosperity to be real and lasting, it has to take root right here in Iowa and in small towns and rural areas across the country.
This is not a new cause for me.
Now, a lot of people – and probably a number of you here today – don’t realize this but New York, where I was elected twice to the Senate is actually a major farm state. It’s principally diary, fruits, and vegetables.
And when I was in the Senate, I made agriculture and rural development a top priority.
And I have to confess, that was a surprise to a lot of my colleagues in the Senate. They kidded me a lot because I was always asking what we were going to do on the farm bill and what more we could do on rural development.
And they’d say, “Well, what do you care? You represent New York.” And I’d say, “Have you ever seen a map of New York? There’s a lot of New York north of New York City.”
And so finally one day in the spirit of fun and engagement with my colleagues, I brought a picture of a New York dairy cow down to the Senate floor to give a speech about “We do have cows in New York.”
And when I finished, one of my friends from a midwestern state that shall remain nameless, came up to me and he goes, “Okay, so you’ve got one cow.”
But I was struck then by the disconnect between upstate rural New York, which is struggling – has for years – and the downstate urban communities.
Now, there were entrepreneurs upstate who were desperate for capital and there were investors in New York City looking for promising projects. But they didn’t know each other and they didn’t connect with each other.
There were even chefs and restaurant owners in Manhattan obsessed with local produce and there were farmers and winemakers in upstate New York who had never sold beyond their own immediate communities.
So I got to work. I wanted to convene and connect and we launched something I called the Farm-to-Fork Initiative. And we fought for broadband access and we brought new technology partnerships to rural areas and we helped to start small businesses get online and find customers all over the world.
There was so much potential. We just had to unleash it.
And in the years since, the opportunities for rural economic growth across America have only grown more exciting.
But the challenges facing rural communities have also grown.
Thanks to a lot of hard work and sacrifice, we’ve come back from the worst of the Great Recession. We’re standing again but we’re not yet running the way America should.
Median household income in rural areas is still thousands of dollars less than in urban communities.
Farmland values, agricultural exports, commodity prices have all declined, and recently they’ve declined even as the cost of everything else – like prescription drugs and going to college – keeps rising.
More than 25% of children in rural America are growing up in poverty. And in many places, you might have to drive for hours to find a quality, affordable health care provider.
And too many young people feel they have to move away to find a good job and start a family.
Now, the consequences of all these pressures can be devastating. As I’ve traveled around Iowa, I’ve heard story after story about the quiet epidemic that Tom mentioned.
Roughly 23 million Americans suffer from and need treatment for addiction and substance abuse, including meth and [prescription drugs], heroin and alcohol.
In 2013, more Americans died from overdoses than car crashes.
The problems many people used to associate with big cities are now part of daily life in small towns.
And there are far too few treatment options available and there are too fewer because of Gov. [Terry] Branstad’s veto of the compromise bill that Republicans and Democrats [made].
And here’s a statistic that stopped me cold when I first heard about it. Many American women in rural communities, especially those with the least education and the lowest incomes, are living shorter lives than American women who used to in the same environments.
Shorter lives too than women in every other major industrialized country.
I’ve looked into this and there is no single explanation but many of the declines in life expectancy in rural communities are related to job losses, poverty, high rates of smoking, obesity, and substance abuse.
Places where the traditional support systems of families and community that used to hold people together are fraying and failing.
Women and men also who are trying to build a life and a family in such places don’t just face ceilings on their aspirations and opportunities. For many, it’s as if the floor has collapsed beneath them.
Today happens to be women’s equality day. And we have to ask ourselves – or at least I’m asking – how can this be happening in the richest, most powerful nation on Earth?
So I believe it is imperative that we have a comprehensive agenda to revitalize rural America.
And today, I’m calling for action in four areas that reflect the great opportunities for growth: energy, investment, agriculture, and access to health care and education.
First, we need to capitalize on rural America’s strength as a producer of clean, renewable energy.
And I have set two big goals for our clean energy future – half a billion solar panels within four years and enough energy production from renewables to power every home in America within 10 years.
And that will create jobs. It will grow our economy. It will especially grow the rural economy, and it will help us meet the challenge of climate change, which poses an acute threat to everyone, particularly the livelihood of farm communities through droughts and other extreme weather.
But it’s only going to be possible if rural states like Iowa lead the way. Already, you’re producing roughly a third of your total electricity from renewables, especially wind and biofuels.
And if Iowa can do it – I say this all over the country – so can the rest of America.
We need to strengthen the renewable fuel standard so that it drives the development of advanced biofuels and expands the overall contribution that renewable fuels make to our national fuel supply.
And we should also double our investment in loan guarantee programs that help rural communities build the processing plants and convert agriculture and landfill waste into useful products.
Projects like that are already supporting millions of good jobs and with the right incentives, they can create even more.
As we were going through the machine shop and meeting some of the young people, Tom told me one of those Vilsack facts. Everybody who knows him knows that he has a head full of really interesting facts.
Every wind turbine requires 8,800 parts. Just making the parts like we saw in the classroom would employ a lot of people.
In fact, President [Rob] Denson told me he got 135 calls from businesses in the area wanting to hire tool and die makers. And you graduated how many? And they graduated 30.
There are good jobs out there. There are good opportunities out there.
We just have to do more to connect up, not just young people but I saw a couple of people who have been laid off or whose business no longer was in operation coming back to DMACC to improve their skills. So people of all ages.
Now, second, beyond renewables we need to spur broader investment in our rural economy.
The vast majority of the 46 million Americans who live in rural America don’t actually farm themselves.
And many who do farm rely on second jobs and outside income to make ends meet.
So, it’s essential we create more jobs with higher wages in a wider range of industries.
Small and medium-sized businesses are the job engines we need.
But too often here in Iowa and in other rural areas around the country, people can’t get access to credit, especially women and minority-owned businesses cannot get access.
Why is it so easy for a big corporation to get a tax break and so hard for a small business to get a loan? You know the answer. Well, we’re going to fix that.
What I want to do is to be the small business President and that includes small businesses, farms, and everybody who’s actually creating the most jobs for Americans in this economy.
And I’m not just saying it. Here’s what I want to do to make it happen. I want to expand on the number of approved rural business investment companies that link entrepreneurs to capital.
I’ll make it easier for community banks that are at the heart of the rural economy to give out responsible loans to small businesses.
And for rural businesses to thrive, we need better infrastructure – the roads, the rails, bridges, airports. They all have to be maintained. They have to be brought up to a higher level of performance. And that way, they can get products more quickly and effectively to market.
And broadband is key to this. Because if we don’t have universal access to fast, affordable broadband, a lot of opportunities are going to be left behind.
So I will create as well a national infrastructure bank. We will put special focus on expanding high-speed Internet to connect rural areas to the global economy.
I did that in New York. There were a lot of small businesses. They didn’t have websites. This was back, you know, in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004. So I brought in a team of people. I partnered with eBay and other technology firms to help small businesses get onto the world wide web so that they can begin selling more than 10, 20, 30 miles from where they were located. And we began to see results.
That’s what I want to do in rural America.
I’m also a big believer in the New Market Tax Credit, which was on the books.
It encouraged investment in hard-hit and remote communities and it helped to create tens of thousands of jobs in rural America.
We should revive this credit started by my husband. We should expand it. We should make it permanent.
And even as we diversify our rural economy, we can’t forget that agriculture will always be the cornerstone of prosperity.
And this is the third area where we need decisive action.
We have to stand with our farmers, give them the tools and support they need to boost both production and profits.
Whether they’re taking over a longtime family operation or they’re new to the industry, in too many ways, the deck is still stacked against small farms.
As President, I’ll make sure that federal resources like disaster assistance and crop insurance, go to farmers and ranchers who need it the most, not those who have the biggest businesses or the best connections. We will change the formula.
Our success with our New York project – Farm-to-Fork – is a model I’d like to scale up and share across the country so more producers can break into new markets and more customers, especially children, get access to fresh and healthy food.
Those new markets might be across the state, they might be across the country, and maybe even across the world. And we need to be smart about trade.
Done right, trade can drive a lot of economic growth, particularly for farmers who export produce and other products overseas.
But we’ve also seen too many hardworking communities hammered by outsourcing and unfair competition.
So we need to set a high bar for trade agreements. We should support them if they create jobs, raise wages, and advance our national security.
The fourth area where we’re going to take action is expanding access to health care and education in rural areas. That is the key to strong families and strong futures.
This community college is a model of the kind of excellent education that should be available to everyone so our young people don’t have to leave places they love in order to get the skills they need.
I support President Obama’s proposal to make community college tuition free as part of – I think this community serves 37,000 students right? Think about that. That’s a very big opportunity.
I want free community colleges to be part of what I’m going to be doing – and they are – my comprehensive New College Compact.
It will ensure that costs will no longer be a barrier and debt won’t hold anybody back because we are going to offer refinancing all the student debt that is out there already.
And we’re going to make sure that nobody has to borrow tuition money to go to a public college.
So we are really going to go right at this problem that is bedeviling families and students.
I also believe we have to start early so all our kids have the best start in life.
Children in rural areas disproportionately lack access to quality affordable childcare and pre-kindergarten programs.
I will double funding for Early Head Start – a program I worked to help create when I was First Lady – and setting course to ensure that every four-year-old in America can attend high quality pre-school in the next two years.
And we also need to do better on health care.
Decades ago, I led a commission on rural health in Arkansas that worked on increasing access in remote parts of the state.
Today, our health care system has changed dramatically. But it is still too difficult for families in rural America to find quality, affordable health care.
And I know many families here in Iowa are worried about even more rural hospitals closing.
Telemedicine can help, and we should streamline licensing and explore how to make that reimbursable under Medicare.
Here in Iowa, you just won an important victory stopping efforts to prevent Planned Parenthood from providing telemedicine services to women who might not be able to make it to a city. Thousands of women in Iowa had used these services in recent years.
This shouldn’t have to be said but how can anyone be advocating for denying women access to health care?
That may be good politics in a Republican primary but it is terrible policy in the real world. It’s wrong and it should stop.
And it’s just one example of the hypocrisy we’re seeing from Republican candidates and leaders.
They pay lip service to rural America every chance they get but they’re out of touch, out of date policies will strip away the progress we’ve made and take rural communities backwards.
They would give billions of taxpayer dollars to big oil companies that are already successful instead of investing in the clean renewable energy of tomorrow.
You know many Republicans even deny that climate change exists despite the damage it’s doing to farmers and ranchers.
And they killed the export-import bank even though it helps small businesses and farmers.
Instead of expanding support for education, your governor in Iowa vetoed additional funding for education.
We need to be giving teachers a raise, not putting their jobs at risk.
Then there’s immigration.
The fact is American agriculture is heavily dependent on immigrant labor from the orchards of California to the processing plants of Iowa to the groves of Florida.
The Des Moines Register recently noted that even though producers have raised pay, it’s getting harder to find enough workers to harvest their crops.
We’re talking about billions of dollars in income lost because of farm worker shortages.
Comprehensive immigration would help address this problem and give a needed boost to rural communities. And yet, many Republicans still say they want to deport millions of hardworking people, breaking up families, disrupting communities, and harming our economy.
Now, don’t get distracted by the flamboyant frontrunner.
Most of the other Republican candidates are just Trump without the pizazz or the hair.
And just like him, they don’t support a real path to citizenship. When they talk about legal status, that’s code for second-class status.
Now, some are even calling for repealing the 14th Amendment to the Constitution and stripping lawful American citizens of their rights.
It’s hard to imagine of being more out of touch or out of date.
But all the over the top rhetoric does throw the choice in this election into stark relief.
Voters are going to look for who best understands the pressures facing our families and the challenges facing our nation, who has the vision for America’s future, and the skill and tenacity to lead us there.
Other candidates may be out fighting for a particular ideology but I’m fighting for you.
I’m running for President to deliver real results for hardworking American families so that when you do your part, you can get ahead and stay ahead. That’s the basic bargain of America.
In small town and big cities, young, old, black, white, Latino, our country should work for you and every American – the struggling, the striving, and the successful, for the farmer who’s up before dawn and never quits, for the migrant worker who labors in the shadow of deportation, for the engineer building the wind turbine to power our future, for the young person who wants to stay in town and keep the family business going, for every one who’s ever been knocked down but refuse to be knocked out.
That’s the America that we’re going to build together and it will include rural America. That is my pledge to all of you.
Thank you very much.
I remember coming here when you were governor and talking to you – you actually talking to me about wind power and showing me some of the very first windmills that were going up and how you had focused the state government and the businesses of Iowa to really see the economic opportunities as well as the clean renewable energy.
Leadership matters, and leadership that produces results and leadership that has the vision and then follow-through to realize that vision.
And it’s a great personal pleasure for me to be here with Tom but it’s also a professional one because of the leadership that he provided on the issues that I was talking about in my rural agenda.
So, again, thank you very much, Tom.
He and I were colleagues in the Senate. I worked with him as First Lady. I worked with him obviously in President Obama’s first term.
And I have a great deal of admiration and affection for him.
And I think he has to make what I think is a very difficult decision for himself and his family, and he should have the space and the opportunity to decide what he wants to do.
I’m going to be running for President regardless and I’m going to be continuing to put forth my policies.
Obviously, I was proud to be a member of President Obama’s cabinet, but I also have ideas – where I want to go. Not just build on what was done but go beyond. And I would be laying that out.
I always thought that this would be a competitive campaign. I don’t think anybody should – I have [inaudible] – I’m going to run as hard as I can trying to convince as many people as possible to support me and to earn all the votes I can in the caucuses and primaries.
So here’s what I want the American people to know.
My use of personal email was allowed by the State Department. It clearly wasn’t the best choice. I should have used two emails – one personal, one for work – and I take responsibility for that decision.
And I want to be as transparent as possible, which is why I turned over 55,000 pages, why I turned over my server, why I’ve agreed to in fact been asking to and have finally gotten a date to testify before a congressional committee in October.
And I’m confident that this process will prove that I never sent nor received any email that was marked classified.
And I’m going to keep talking about what the American people talk to me about – what’s on their minds – and to lay out my plans for what I would do as President to make the economy work for everybody, to make college affordable, to get the cost of drugs down, to get equal pay for equal work for women, and the whole suite of issues that I think are really at the core of this presidential campaign.
And I will extend my condolences and sympathies to their families and to their co-workers and pray for the woman who last I checked was still in critical condition.
But I would also reiterate we have got to do something about gun violence in America.
And I will take it on.
There are many people who face it and know it but then turn away because it’s hard. It’s a very political and difficult issue in America.
But I believe we are smart enough, we are compassionate enough to figure out how to balance the legitimate Second Amendment rights with preventive measures and control measures so that whatever motivated this murderer, who eventually took his own life, we will not see more deaths – needless, senseless deaths.
So yes, I feel just great heartache at what happened and I want to reiterate how important it is we not let yet another terrible instance go by without trying to do something more to prevent this incredible killing that is stalking our country.
And we’ve had so many terrible instances of it in the last two years. But it happens everyday – intentional, unintentional, murder, suicide – it happens everyday.
And there is so much evidence that if guns were not readily available, if we had universal background checks, if we could just put some time out between the person who’s upset because he got fired or the domestic abuse or whatever other motivation may be working on someone who does this, that maybe we could prevent this kind of carnage.
So I hope that in addition to expressing sympathy for those directly affected, that this is maybe for the media, for the public, for elected officials, for every American what it hopefully finally take for us to act.
Thanks.
And in the overview that I gave of my proposal, I said that we need trade but we need trade that meets the three criteria that I’ve laid out. That it protects American jobs, it grows the economy, and it also advances our national security.
And that’s why I am focused on looking for how we make trade work better for all aspects of our economy. But I am well aware of how critical trade is for American agriculture, and I’m going to do everything I can as President to make sure – regardless of what trade agreements we have – that American farmers get a really good shot at new markets and new opportunities.
And I think we’ll have some ways of doing that. And in my longer description of these policies that I overviewed today, you can see more about what I mean.
…You know, we Democrats believe in an America where no matter who you are or where you come from, you should have an equal shot at success. That’s the America we love. That’s the America we’re fighting for.
And fundamentally, that’s what’s at stake in this election. Whether our country keeps moving towards opportunity and prosperity for all or whether Republicans get another chance to rip away the progress we’ve worked so hard to achieve.
Now, we’ve come a long way these past 6.5 years. But let’s not forget what we inherited from the Republicans: The worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
Thanks to the hard work and sacrifice of the American people and the leadership of President Obama, we’re standing again. But we’re not yet running like we should.
This election is about who best understands the pressures facing the families of America and the challenges facing us in the world and who has the skills and tenacity to tackle them.
Today, families are stretched in a million directions and so are their budgets. Costs for everything from prescription drugs to child care to college are going up faster than wages.
A full-time minimum wage job can’t lift you out of poverty. Middle class paychecks haven’t increased even though corporate profits and CEO pay keeps rising.
And at a time when more women than ever are their family’s main bread winner, too often – can you believe it – they still don’t get equal pay.
And unions that help create the great American middle class are under concerted attacks by Republicans and their allies.
And think of the millions of Americans being held back by their student debt. They can’t start a business. They can’t buy a house. They can’t even get married because of the loans hanging over their heads. That’s not the way it’s supposed to be in America.
In America, if you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
That is the basic bargain – that’s the basic bargain that made this country great, and that Democrats have worked so hard over the years to strengthen and defend.
That bargain is what kept my grandfather going to work in the Scranton lace mill factory everyday.
It’s what led my father to believe that if he saved and sacrificed, his small business – printing fabric in Chicago – could provide us with a middle class life.
And you know what? It did.
When my husband put people first and made that bargain mean something again in the 1990s, we had 23 million new jobs, a balanced budget, and for the first time in decades, we all grew together, not just those at the top but everyone.
And when President Obama did it, we pulled back from the brink of depression, saved the auto industry, curbed Wall Street abuses, and provided health care to 16 million people.
You know, the evidence is pretty clear. The basic bargain works. If everyone does their fair share and everyone gets a fair shot, our whole country succeeds. And that success doesn’t just go to a few; it’s widely shared. Democrats have proven that again and again.
Now, it is up to us to renew that bargain for a new generation, to do what we know works and what we know is right.
We’ve got to make sure that every American gets a chance to pursue his or her dreams to live up to their God-given potential. That’s what I will do as President. That’s what people tell me they want as I’ve criss-crossed the country listening.
Like the single mom who’s juggling a job and classes at community college all while raising three kids alone. She’s doing what she has to do to give herself and her kids a good life.
She doesn’t expect anything to come easy. But she asked me “Isn’t there anything we can do so it isn’t quite so hard?”
Or the student who told me that paying for college shouldn’t be the hardest thing about going to college.
Or the grandmother who’s raising her grandchild because her daughter is hooked on heroin and now she needs help with childcare while she goes back to work.
I believe raising incomes and supporting families is the defining economic challenge of our time.
And that’s why I’ve made it the focus of my campaign, and it will be my mission every single day in the White House.
Now, these are not new fights for you or for me.
My first job out of law school wasn’t at some big firm; it was at the Children’s Defense Fund.
And a few years later, I started an organization called Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families.
My whole life, I’ve worked to even the odds for people who have the odds stacked against them. That’s what we Democrats do. That’s why we’re here.
It’s what keeps us working and fighting through every up and down for the values we share and the country we love.
Democrats believe that corporations should be held accountable when they gouge us on drug prices or pollute our environment or exploit workers, that they just can’t be allowed to write their own rules at everyone else’s expense.
I believe in strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth, that the rewards of our success cannot just go to the wealthy, that when a company does well shareholders and executives aren’t the only ones who should benefit – the people who work at that company day in and day out and produce those profits should share in them too.
Democrats believe Americans deserve a raise, that women deserve equal pay.
We’re the ones fighting to help families afford college and make sure you can refinance your debt.
Democrats understand that you can’t go to work if you can’t find child care. We believe you shouldn’t lose your paycheck or your job when you have a baby or someone in your family gets sick.
We believe everyone deserves access to quality affordable health care and we’re the ones standing up and saying that the Affordable Care Act is here to stay.
We have come too far and fought too hard to let anyone destroy that now.
And we’re the ones who want to make Social Security even stronger and who will fight any attempt to weaken America’s commitment to our seniors.
We believe in a pathway to citizenship for the millions of immigrants in this country who contribute to it every single day.
Democrats believe that no matter who you are, what you look like, what faith you practice or who you love, America has a place for you and your rights are just as sacred as anyone else’s.
And by the way, we don’t just stand up for these values here at home. We stand up for them everywhere.
That’s why I travel the world for non-stop for four years as Secretary of State calling for equal rights for women and girls, for LGBT people, for religious minorities, for all oppressed people because the United States has always been a beacon of hope to the world and we need to keep that light shining for all to see.
That’s what it means to be a Democrat. Those are the values we cherish and it’s time to stand together and defend those values because others are doing everything they can to take our country in a very different direction.
Who watched the Republican debate a few weeks ago?
17 candidates all trying to outdo each other in their ideological purity. All either oblivious to how their ideas would hurt people or just not interested.
Not one of them had a single word to say about how to make college more affordable.
Not a word about equal pay for women or paid family leave or quality affordable pre-school for our kids so they can get the best start in life.
No solutions for skyrocketing prescription drug costs.
No promises to end the era of mass incarceration or say clearly and loudly “Black lives matter.”
I didn’t hear any credible plan to promote clean energy or combat climate change.
And no one is standing up and saying what we all know to be true: We need to put an end to the gun violence that plagues our communities.
You know, after the terrible events of Wednesday with two journalists killed on live television plus a police officer killed in Louisiana and many more lost everyday in carnage that largely goes unnoticed now across our country, I don’t know how anyone could not come to the conclusion that something is deeply wrong.
I believe that we can have common sense gun reforms that keep weapons out of hands that should not have them – the domestic abusers, the violently unstable – while respecting the rights of responsible gun owners.
Now, I know the politics are hard. I know that some would rather throw up their hands or give up the fight.
But not me. I am not going to sit by while more good people die across America.
Now, Republicans don’t want to hear about any of these things.
Their flamboyant frontrunner has grabbed a lot of attention lately but if you look at everyone else’s policies, they’re pretty much the same. They’re trump without the pizazz or the hair.
And I got to add, you know, a lot of people have said a lot of things about my hair over the years, so I do kind of know what Donald is going through. And if anyone wonders if mine is real, here’s the answer: The hair is real; the color isn’t.
And come to think of it, I wonder if that’s true for Donald too.
Look, you hear Mr. Trump say hateful things about immigrants, even about their babies. But how many others disagree with him? Or support a real path to citizenship or draw the line at repealing the 14th amendment?
Today, the party of Lincoln has become the party of Trump. Think about it.
Now, of course, Mr. Trump also insults and dismisses women.
And by the way, just yesterday he attacked me once again and said I didn’t have a clue about women’s health issues. Really?
I mean, you can’t make this stuff up folks. Trump actually says he would do a much better job for women than I would.
Now, that’s a general election debate that’s going to be a lot of fun.
But, listen to the other – Sen. [Marco] Rubio brags about denying victims of rape and incest access to abortion. Gov. [Jeb] Bush says $500 million is too much to spend on women’s health. And they all want to defund Planned Parenthood.
I’d like them to tell that to the mom who caught her breast cancer early because she was able to get a screening. Or to the teenager who avoided an unintended pregnancy because she had access to contraception. Or anyone who has been protected by an HIV test.
Now, all of the stuff they’re saying might be read meat in a Republican primary but it is dead wrong in 21st century America.
And I know that when I talk like this that some people think “There she goes again with the women’s issues.” Republicans actually say I am playing the gender card.
Well, if calling for equal pay and paid leave and women’s health is playing the gender card, deal me in.
So my friends, we Democrats are not going to sit idly by while Republicans shame and blame women.
We’re not going to stay quiet when they demonize immigrants whether they’re Latino, Asian or anything else.
We’re not going to keep silent when they say climate change isn’t real or same-sex couples are threatening our freedom or trickle down economics works.
We can’t let them take us backwards and so we’re going to fight and we’re going to win.
And I’ll tell you, it’s no secret that we’re going up against some pretty powerful forces who will say, do, and spend whatever it takes to advance their out-of-touch, out-of-date agenda.
As far as they’re concerned, if our democracy pays the prices, so be it.
We have lived through this before. The robber barons of the late 19th century handed public officials banks of cash.
Now, we have secret unaccountable money that distorts our elections and drowns out the voices of everyday Americans.
We need justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen’s right to vote instead of what they have been doing protecting every corporation’s right to buy elections.
If necessary, I will work to pass a constitutional amendment to undo Citizens United.
So, make no mistake. This isn’t going to be easy. You know that and I know that.
But I have been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life and I’m not going to stop now.
In fact, I’m just getting warmed up. So I’m here to ask for your help.
I’m not taking any single primary voter or caucus goer for granted. I’m building an organization all 50 states and territories with hundreds of thousands of volunteers who will help Democrats win races up and down the ticket not just the presidential campaign.
Look, you know, in 2010, Republicans routed us on re-districting, not because they won Congress but because they won state legislatures. And look where we are now. We can’t ever let that happen again.
It’s time to rebuild our party from the ground up, and if you make me the nominee, that’s exactly what I will do.
So, look everybody, I’ve been around long enough to know every county and local office counts, every school board and state house and senate seat counts. Every single one so we have to compete everywhere.
When our state parties are strong, we win. That’s what will happen.
And when Democrats win, America wins.
So I hope you’ll join me because we’re building something that will last long after next November.
I want to be President to take on all the big problems that fill our screens everyday at home and around the world. Other candidates may be fighting for particular ideology, but I’m fighting for you and your families.
I’ll take on the kinds of problems that keep people up at night. How are you going to work if you can’t find anyone to watch your kids? What happens if you lose that job you worked so hard to find? Where can you turn when that loved one who’s battling addiction or struggling with mental illness finally wants help?
All the challenges that millions of Americans deal with everyday that they talk to me about – challenges that our leaders should care about but they don’t get nearly enough attention.
I am paying attention. I hear you. And I want to be the President that fights those fights too. To fight for every American, everyday. To fight for each and every one of you.
Now, let me say at the end here that you know I am a proud new grandmother of an 11-month-old extraordinary granddaughter, Charlotte.
And obviously, her parents and Bill and I will do everything we can to make sure she has every opportunity to pursue her dreams.
But you know, that’s not enough. Because what kind of country and world will she grow up to live in that all of America’s children will live in?
You shouldn’t have to be a granddaughter of a former President and Secretary of State to succeed in America. I want the granddaughters of the factory workers and the grandsons of farm workers to have exactly the same chance.
So let’s keep working with all our hearts toward a better future for all our children and grandchildren. They deserve to live in an America where everyone has a shot at achieving their dreams, where everyone gets to live up to their potential.
And yes, where a father can say to his daughter “You can be anything you want even President of the United States.”
Thank you all. God bless you.
…That’s what brings me here today back to Brookings to talk about the question we’re all grappling with – how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and more broadly how to protect ourselves and our allies from the full range of threats that Iran poses.
The stakes are high and there are no simple or perfectly satisfying solutions.
So these questions and in particular the merits of the nuclear deal recently reached with Iran have divided people of good will and raised hard issues on both sides.
Here’s how I see it – either we move forward on the path of diplomacy and seize this chance to block Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon or we turn down to a more dangerous path leading to a far less certain and riskier future.
That’s why I support this deal. I support it as part of a larger strategy toward Iran.
By now, the outcome in Congress is no longer in much doubt. So we’ve got to start looking ahead to what comes next – enforcing the deal, deterring Iran and its proxies and strengthening our allies.
These will be my goals as President and today I want to talk about how I would achieve them.
Let me start by saying I understand the skepticism so many feel about Iran.
I too am deeply concerned about Iranian aggression and the need to confront it. It’s a ruthless, brutal regime that has the blood of Americans, many others, including its own people on its hands.
Its political rallies resound with cries of death to America. Its leaders talk about wiping Israel off the face of the map – most recently just yesterday – and foment terror against it.
There is absolutely no reason to trust Iran.
Now, Vice President Cheney may hope that the American people will simply forget. But the truth is by the time President Obama took office and I became Secretary of State, Iran was racing toward a nuclear capability.
They had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle, meaning that they had the materials, scientists, and technical know-how to create materials for nuclear weapons.
They had produced and installed thousands of centrifuges, expanded their secret facilities, established a robust uranium enrichment program and defied their international obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
And they hadn’t suffered many consequences.
I voted for sanctions again and again as a Senator from New York. But they weren’t having much effect. Most of the world still did business with Iran.
We needed to step up our game. So President Obama and I pursued a two-prong strategy – pressure and engagement.
We made it clear that the door to diplomacy was open if Iran answered the concerns of the international community in a serious and credible way. We simultaneously launched a comprehensive campaign to significantly raise the cost of Iranian defiance.
We systematically increased our military capabilities in the region, deepening our cooperation with partners and sending more fire power and additional aircraft carrier, battleship, strike aircrafts and the most advanced radar and missile defense systems available.
Meanwhile I traveled capitol by capitol, leader by leader, twisting arms to help build the global coalition that produced some of the most effective sanctions in history.
With President Obama’s leadership, we worked with Congress and the European Union to cut Iran off from the world’s economic and financial system.
And one by one, we persuaded energy hungry consumers of Iranian oil like India and South Korea to cut back.
Soon, Iran’s tankers sat rusting in port. Its economy was collapsing. These new measures were effective because we made them global.
American sanctions provided the foundation. But Iran didn’t really feel the heat until we turned this into an international campaign so biting that Iran had no choice but to negotiate.
They could no longer play off one country against another. They had no place to hide.
So they started looking for a way out.
I first visited Oman to speak with the Sultan of Oman in January of 2011, went back later that year. The Sultan helped set up a secret back channel.
I sent one of my closest aides as part of a small team to begin talks with the Iranians in secret.
Negotiations began in earnest after the Iranian election in 2013.
First, the bilateral talks led by Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and Jake Sullivan that led to the interim agreement.
Then the multi-lateral talks led by Secretary John Kerry, Secretary Ernie Moniz, and Under Secretary Wendy Sherman.
Now, there’s a comprehensive agreement on Iran’s nuclear program.
Is it perfect? Well, of course not. No agreement like this ever is.
But is it a strong agreement? Yes, it is and we absolutely should not turn it down.
The merits of the deal have been well-argued so I won’t go through them in great detail here.
The bottom line is that it accomplishes the major goals we set out to achieve. It blocks every pathway for Iran to get a bomb.
And it gives us better tools for verification and inspection and to compel rigorous compliance.
Without a deal, Iraq’s breakout time – how long they need to produce enough material for a nuclear weapon – would shrink to a couple of months.
With a deal, that breakout time stretches to a year, which means that if Iran cheats, we’ll know it and we’ll have time to respond decisively.
Without a deal, we would have no credible inspections of Iran’s nuclear facilities.
With a deal, we’ll have unprecedented access. We’ll be able to monitor every aspect of their nuclear program.
Now, some have expressed concern that certain nuclear restrictions expire after 15 years and we need to be vigilant about that, which I’ll talk more about in a moment.
But other parts are permanent, including Iran’s obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and their commitment to enhanced inspections under the additional protocol.
Others have expressed concerns that it could take up to 24 days to gain access to some of Iran’s facilities when we suspect cheating. I’ll be the first to say that this part of the deal is not perfect although the deal does allow for daily access to enrichment facilities and monitoring of the entire nuclear fuel cycle. It’s important to focus on that because being able to monitor the supply chain is critical to what we will find out and how we will be able to respond.
But our experts tell us that even with delayed access to some places, this deal does the job.
Microscopic nuclear particles remain for years and years. They are impossible to hide. That’s why Secretary Moniz, a nuclear physicist, has confidence in this plan.
And some have suggested that we just go back to the negotiating table and get a better, unspecified deal. I can certainly understand why that may sound appealing.
But as someone who started these talks in the first place and built our global coalition piece by piece, I can assure it is not realistic.
Plus, if we walk away now, our capacity to sustain and enforce sanctions will be severely diminished. We will be blamed. Not the Iranians.
So if we were to reject this agreement, Iran would be poised to get nearly everything it wants without giving up a thing. No restrictions on their nuclear program. No real warning if Tehran suddenly rushes toward a bomb. And the international sanctions regime would fall apart. So no more economic consequences for Iran either.
Those of us who have been out there on a diplomatic frontline know that diplomacy is not the pursuit of perfection. It’s the balancing of risks. And on balance, the far riskier course right now would be to walk away.
Great powers can’t just junk agreements and expect the rest of the world to go along with us.
We need to be reasonable and consistent and we need to keep our word, especially when we’re trying to lead a coalition.
That’s how we’ll make this and future deals work.
But it’s not enough just to say “Yes” to this deal. Of course, it isn’t.
We have to say “Yes and “ – “Yes, and we will enforce it with vigor and vigilance.” “Yes, and we will embed it in a broader strategy to confront Iran’s bad behavior in the region.” “Yes, and we will begin from day one to set the conditions so Iran knows it will never be able to get a nuclear weapon, not during the term of the agreement, not after, not ever.”
We need to be clear and I think we have to make that very clear to Iran about what we expect from them.
This is not the start of some larger diplomatic opening, and we shouldn’t expect that this deal would lead to broader changes in their behavior. That shouldn’t be a promise for proceeding.
Instead, we need to be prepared for three scenarios.
First, Iran tries to cheat – something it’s been quite willing to do in the past.
Second, Iran tries to wait us out. Perhaps it waits to move in 15 years when some but not all restrictions expire.
And third, Iran ramps up its dangerous behavior in the region, including its support for terrorist groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.
I believe that the success of this deal has a lot to do with how the next President grapples with these challenges.
So let me tell you what I would do.
My starting point would be one of distrust. You remember President Reagan’s line about the Soviets – trust but verify. My approach would be distrust and verify.
We should anticipate that Iran will test the next President. They’ll want to see how far they can bend the rules. That won’t work if I’m in the White House. I’ll hold the line against Iranian non-compliance.
That means penalties even for small violations. Keeping our allies on board but being willing to snap back sanctions into place unilaterally if we have to. Working with Congress to close any gaps in the sanctions
Right now, members of Congress are offering proposals to that effect and I think the current administration should work with them to see whether there are additional steps that could be taken.
Finally, it means ensuring that the IAEA has the resources it needs from finances to personnel to equipment to hold Iran’s feet to the fire.
But the most important thing we can do to keep Iran from cheating or trying to wait us out is to shape Iranian expectations right from the start.
The Iranians and the world need to understand that we will act decisively if we need to.
So here’s my message to Iran’s leaders: The United States will never allow you to acquire a nuclear weapon.
As President, I will take whatever actions are necessary to protect the United States and our allies. I will not hesitate to take military action if Iran attempts to obtain a nuclear weapon.
And I will set up my successor to be able to credibly make the same pledge.
We will make clear to Iran that our national commitment to prevention will not waiver depending on who’s in office. It’s permanent.
And should it become necessary in the future having exhausted peaceful alternatives to turn to military force, we will have preserved and in some cases enhanced our capacity to act.
And because we’ve proven our commitment to diplomacy first, the world will more likely join us.
Then there’s the broader issue of countering Iran’s bad behavior across the region.
Taking nuclear weapons out of the equation is crucial because an Iran with nuclear weapons is so much more dangerous than an Iran without them.
But even without nuclear weapons, we still see Iran’s fingerprints on nearly every conflict across the Middle East. They support bad actors from Syria to Lebanon to Yemen.
They vow to destroy Israel. And that’s worth saying again. They vow to destroy Israel. We cannot ever take that lightly, particularly when Iran ships missiles to Hezbollah and the Ayatollah outlines an actual strategy for eliminating Israel or talks about how Israel won’t exist in 25 years just like he did today.
And in addition to all the malicious activities they already underwrite, we’ve got to anticipate that Iran could use some of the economic relief they get from this deal to pay for even more.
So as President, I will raise the costs for their actions and confront them across the board.
My strategy will be based on five strong pillars.
First, I will deepen America’s unshakeable commitment to Israel’s security, including our long-standing tradition of guaranteeing Israel’s qualitative military edge.
I’ll increase support for Israeli rocket and missile defenses and foreign intelligence sharing. I’ll sell Israel the most sophisticated fighter aircraft ever developed – the F-35. We’ll work together to develop and implement better tunnel detection technologies to prevent arms smuggling and kidnapping as well as the strongest possible missile defense system for northern Israel, which has been subjected to Hezbollah’s attacks for years.
Second, I will reaffirm that the Persian Gulf is a region of vital interest to the United States. We don’t want any of Iran’s neighbors to develop or acquire a nuclear weapons program either.
So we want them to feel and be secure. I will sustain a robust military presence in the region, especially our air and naval forces. We’ll keep the Strait of Hormuz open. We’ll increase security cooperation with our Gulf allies, including intelligence sharing, military support, and missile defense to ensure they can defend against Iranian aggression, even if that takes the form of cyber attacks or other non-traditional threats.
Iran should understand that the United States and I as President will not stand by as our Gulf allies and partners are threatened. We will act.
Third, I will build a coalition to counter Iran’s proxies, particularly Hezbollah. That means enforcing and strengthening the rules prohibiting the transfer of weapons to Hezbollah, looking at new ways to choke off their funding and pressing our partners to treat Hezbollah as the terrorist organization it is.
It’s time to eliminate the false distinction that some still make between the supposed political and military wings. If you’re part of Hezbollah, you’re part of a terrorist organization. Plain and simple.
Beyond Hezbollah, I’ll crack down on the shipment of weapons to Hamas and push Turkey and Qatar to end their financial support.
I’ll press our partners in the region to prevent aircrafts and ships owned by companies linked to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard from entering their territories and urge our partners to block Iranian planes from entering their airspace on their way to Yemen and Syria.
Across the board, I will vigorously enforce and strengthen if necessary the American sanctions on Iran and its revolutionary guard for its sponsorship of terrorism, its ballistic missile program and other destabilizing activities.
I’ll enforce and strengthen if necessary our restrictions on sending arms to Iran and from Iran to bad actors like Syria. And I’ll impose these sanctions on everyone involved in these activities whether they’re in Iran or overseas.
This will be a special imperative as some of the U.N. sanctions lapse.
So the U.S. and our partners have to step up.
Fourth, I’ll stand as I always have against Iran’s abuses at home, from its detention of political prisoners to its crackdown on freedom of expression, including online. Its inhumane policies hold back talented and spirited people.
Our quarrel has not and never has been with the Iranian people. They have a bright future – a hopeful future – if they weren’t held back by their leaders.
As I said before, I think we were too restrained in our support of the protests in June 2009 and in our condemnation of the government crackdown that followed. That won’t happen again.
We will enforce and if need be broaden our human rights sanctions and I will not rest until every single American detained or missing in Iran.
Fifth, just as the nuclear agreement needs to be embedded in a broader Iran policy, our broader Iran policy needs to be embedded in a comprehensive regional strategy that promotes stability and counters extremism.
Iran, like ISIS, benefits from chaos and strife. It exploits other countries’ weaknesses and the best defense against Iran are the countries and government being strong so they can provide security and economic opportunity to their own people and they must have the tools to push back on radicalization and extremism.
Helping countries get there will take time and strategic discipline.
But it’s crucial that the United States leads this effort. I will push for renewed diplomacy to solve the destructive regional conflicts that Iran fuels.
We have to bring sufficient pressure on Assad to force a political solution in Syria including a meaningful increase in our efforts to train and equip the moderate Syrian opposition – something I called for early in the conflict.
And the United States must lead in assisting those who have been uprooted by conflict, especially the millions of Syrian refugees now beseeching the world to help them.
As Pope Francis has reminded us, this is an international problem that demands an international response and the United States must help lead that response. That’s who we are and that’s what we do.
So our strategy needs to cover all these basis – Iran’s nuclear ambitions and its support of terrorism, its hatred of Israel and its cruelty towards its citizens, its military resources and its economic strengths and weaknesses.
We need to be creative, committed, and vigilant. And on every front, we need to keep working closely with our friends and partners.
On that note, let me just spend a minute speaking about the serious concerns that Israel’s leaders have about this deal.
Israel has every reason to be alarmed by a regime that both denies its existence and seeks its destruction.
I would not support this agreement for one second if I thought it put Israel in greater danger.
I believe in my core that Israel and America must stand side by side, and I will always stand by Israel’s right to defend itself as I always have.
I believe this deal and a joint strategy for enforcing it makes Israel safer. I say that with humility. I’m not Israeli. I don’t know what it’s like to live under constant threat from your neighbors in a country where the margin for error is so thin.
I know that my saying this deal makes you safer won’t alleviate the very real fears of the Israeli people.
But I have stood for Israeli security for a very long time. It was one of my bedrock principles as Secretary of State. It’s why I supported its stronger defense systems like the Iron Dome Anti-Rocket Defense System, which proved so effective in protecting Israeli lives during the conflicts of 2012 and last summer.
It’s why I’ve worked closely with Israel to advance a two-state vision of a Jewish and Democratic Israel with secure and recognized borders.
And it’s why I believe we should expedite negotiations of a long-term military assistance agreement with Israel.
Let’s not wait until 2017 when the current deal expires. Let’s get it done this year.
I would invite the Israeli Prime Minister to the White House during my first month in office to talk about all of these issues and to set us on a course of close, frequent consultation right from the start because we both rely on each other for support as partners, allies, and friends.
This isn’t just about policy for me. It is personal.
As President, I’m committed to shoring up and strengthening the relationship between our countries.
We have had honest disagreements about this deal. Now is the time to come together. Now is the time to remember what unites us and build upon it.
And so I know well that the same forces that threaten Israel threaten the United States.
And to the people of Israel, let me say you’ll never have to question whether we’re with you. The United States will always be with you.
There have also been honest disagreements about the nuclear deal here at home. Smart serious people can see issues like these differently.
Like my friend, Chuck Schumer, who’s going to be an excellent leader in the Senate. I respect the skepticism that he and others feel.
And I respect differences of opinion and people who advocate vigorously for their beliefs.
But I have a harder time respecting those who approach an issue as serious as this with unserious talk, especially anyone running to be President of the United States.
Several Republican candidates boast they’ll tear up this agreement in 2017 more than a year after it’s been implemented. That’s not leadership; that’s recklessness.
It would send us right down the very dangerous path we’ve worked so hard to avoid.
I’m looking forward to a robust debate about foreign policy in this campaign.
Where we have disagreements, we should lay them out like if American ground forces in Iraq should engage in direct combat as Scott Walker wants or if we should keep Cuba closed as Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush want.
Let’s debate these issues. But let’s debate them on the basis of facts, not fear.
Let’s resist denigrating the patriotism or loyalty of those who disagree with us.
And let’s avoid at all cost undermining America’s credibility abroad. That only makes us weaker and I’m going to call it out whenever I see it.
I spent four years representing America abroad as America’s Secretary of State. It was one of the greatest privileges of my life.
And knowing that my fellow Americans were counting on me and rooting for me, not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans, meant a great deal.
We are all one team – the American team and that doesn’t change no matter how much we might disagree.
And I can tell you from personal experience we are stronger overseas when we are united at home.
So we simply have to find a way to work together better than we have been doing.
There’s a lot that Democrats and Republicans can and should agree on.
The United States should lead in the Middle East. We can agree on that.
We should stand by our friends against Iranian aggression. We can agree on that too.
I believe that the plan that I’ve laid out today is one that all Americans could endorse and I hope they will.
The next President will face threats from many quarters, from those we see today like terrorism from ISIS, aggressiveness from Putin, pandemics like Ebola, to all those we can’t predict yet.
We need a leader who has a strong vision for the future and the skill and determination to get us there.
We can’t stop the world from changing. But we can help to shape those changes, and we can do that by leading with strength, smarts, and unyielding commitment to our values.
You know, I first saw that when I was First Lady, Senator, Secretary of State. When America leads with principle and purpose, other people and governments are eager to join us.
No country comes close to matching our advantages – the strength of our economy, the skill of our workforce, our tradition and innovation, our unmatched network of alliances and partnerships.
So we are poised to remain the world’s most admired and powerful nation for a long time if we make the smart choices and practice smart leadership.
That’s what I will try to do as your President and I believe as strongly as ever that our best days are ahead of us and that America’s greatest contributions to the world are yet to come.
Thank you all very much.
The agreement will be enforced not by Iran. The agreement will be enforced by the rest of the negotiators – the other countries – plus the IAEA and it will be and is intended to be quite burdensome and intrusive into Iran.
Now, maybe they believe that having signed the agreement that they can somehow avoid the consequences of the inspections and the other requirements.
But I think they understand very well they’re at the starting line. There are these demands that they are supposed to fulfill. There is a sequencing of lifting of sanctions and other kinds of benefits that they receive in return for their having taken the action required.
And I think they’re if anything probably counting on the world led by the United States being distracted, being diverted, getting tired, not having the staying power to consistently enforce the agreement and hold Iran accountable. And I for one want to make clear to them that that is not going to happen, that we will take seriously every aspect of this agreement and we will expect them to comply and there will be consequences if they do not.
There’s no doubt that Russia has been a principal funder and supplier throughout this entire terrible episode.
So we are facing the collapse of Syria. The survival thus far of the Assad regime -although it clearly has much less to govern than it did when this started, the open ungoverned areas that are hosting terrorist groups, and the continuing commitment from Iran and Russia to propping up Assad.
So you know I was the principal negotiator on the Geneva 2012 agreement, which Russia signed onto, which laid out a pathway to a political solution. It wasn’t very long until Russia reneged on what they had signed. But I think it still provides a very credible framework for us to keep doing everything we can to try to push the Iranians and the Russians in that direction.
Now, what I do believe is this. You know, the potential threat from the terrorist groups and the chaos in Syria can destabilize the region in ways that are bad for Iran.
And therefore the higher the pressure is for some kind of reaction to what is going on inside Syria and certainly the efforts that ISIS is making to take even more and hold territory in Iraq directly against what Iran sees as its interest, the continuing destabilization along the Lebanese border, there’s all kinds of reasons why Iran is going to have to confront this instability.
I think we have – my view on this is we have to be talking and pushing and raising the costs for Iran and for Russia all the time.
Now, if Putin were sitting here, which is sort of hard to imagine, if he were…he would say, “We’re fighting terrorism. That’s what we’re doing.”
So, there may be a way to begin to join those up.
I apologize for my voice. I’m suffering under massive allergies assault. Yes, the Republican histamines are everywhere.
…This is one of the biggest problems we face. Nobody can deny that much of the extremism in the world today is a direct result of policies and funding undertaken by the Saudi government and individuals. We would be foolish not to recognize that.
I think increasingly they would be mistaken not to recognize that. You can never be more extreme than the next extremist, and I think they face some very serious internal problems as do the other regimes.
I’m not sure they’re yet convinced of that. I’m not sure they yet believe that they have to figure out different ways of dealing with their own population and cooperating with each other and cutting off funding and exporting troublesome imams to elsewhere.
But I think you have to be constantly beating that drum with them.
And maybe now given the rise of ISIS and the very clear threat they feel from Iranian activities in the Gulf that maybe there’s an openness there.
I know that the king was here last week, had a chance to meet with the President. So perhaps there’s more of an opportunity for a candid dialogue than we’ve had in the past.
However, having said that, I still think we have to do what we need to do to defend them because the alternatives are hardly more promising.
But I just don’t think it’s a particularly productive approach for the United States to take because in large measure, it opens the door to everybody else to de-legitimize Israel, to pile on in ways that are not good for the strength and stability not just of Israel obviously but of the region.
And so in the absence of some kind of greater goal that we were trying to achieve by doing that, I just don’t think that is the smartest approach.
You know, when I first went to Oman in January of 2011, we didn’t know whether any effort at some kind of secret channel would pay off.
We still had the P5+1 that was going on and we knew that eventually whatever the United States did would have to merge into the international approach.
But we had to begin to explore it and we did. And we explored it over that summer. That’s when we had the first visit to discuss whether anything could be possible.
It takes a while…to figure out who’s at the table, what the conversation is about, how seriously it’ll be taken, who’s backing you up.
And so then when the talks actually started just in the Iranian-American channel with Bill Burns and Jake Sullivan and Bob Einhorn was also involved, it was exploratory and it laid down some of the ground rules that we were looking for.
And then it was merged into the larger P5+1 once there was a change in government in Iran and there was some real seriousness of effort.
So with respect to the other issues, I have very clearly in the public arena seen the Iranians at the highest levels reject any such discussion. They don’t want to talk about Yemen. They don’t want to talk about anything than other the nuclear agreement.
Now, that was a strategic decision we made back then.
You know, number one, it appeared to us in the early discussion with them trying to figure out how to proceed, they wanted to talk about everything as a way to get some items on the table to trade off for the nuclear agreement so that they would not have to make perhaps as many concessions as we were expecting them to make.
That’s why we kept very focused on just the nuclear program.
We also had the continuing challenge and it would be even in this instance of our friends in the Gulf not wanting us to talk about anything that affected them in a bilateral channel with the Iranians.
And you can understand why. I mean, if they weren’t going to be at the table, they didn’t want the United States talking about Yemen or talking about anything else of vital interests in their views to them.
So if there were a way to construct such a channel, I would be open to it. But I’m just laying out some of the difficulties of us being able to do that on this suite of other issues that are complex and touch many of the region’s vital interests.
And I think when it comes to Syria, we have historically not wanted to talk to Iran about Syria because we knew Iran was basically the principal supporter – propper-up if you will – of Assad. And we wanted to get the rest of the international community in harness to have a set of expectations and demands we brought Iran in.
So we have to readjust this all the time.
Just as I said diplomacy is a balancing of risks, it’s also the constant evaluation of where the opportunities are, where the openings are, what possibly could happen now that didn’t happen before.
So I’m open but I am very sober about how it would have to be constructed and what it would actually cover and who would have to be either at the table or in the first chair behind so that they didn’t feel that they were being left out or negotiated over.
Well, I have been and I remain convinced that we need a concerted effort to really up the cost on Russia and in particular on Putin. I think we have not done enough. I am in the category of people who wanted us to do more in response to the annexation of Crimea and the continuing destabilization of Ukraine.
I understand the hesitation not only in our country but most importantly in Europe.
The sanctions came out of all of the discussions and, you know, maybe to some extent they have had some impact. I think the falling oil price has had more impact and we’ve got to figure out how we combine both and looking at ways to put more – to up the cost, to put more pressure on Putin.
I think it’s one of the long-term security challenges that the United States, Europe, especially NATO, face, and I don’t think we can dance around it very much longer.
I mean, we all wish it wasn’t the case. We all wish it would go away. We all wish that Putin would choose to modernize his country and move toward the West instead of sinking himself deeper into historical roots of Czar-like behavior and intimidations along borders and projecting Russian power in places like Syria and elsewhere.
But I think the jury is in. I think that he intends to continue to do what he’s doing and go as far as he can get away with.
And I believe that, you know, we’ve got to regroup and we’ve got to regroup quickly because I worry very much about what’s happening in Syria right now. Troops on the ground to allegedly protect military supplies. What is Russia’s real objective?
You know, the stated objective – the public objective – to fight terrorism has always been their rationale to support Assad because after Assad there would be terrorism.
Now, obviously if we had a different approach from the beginning working together we might have avoided that. We might have actually helped to midwife a political transition.
So I think we’ve got to spend a lot more time – all the Russian experts that thought that their work was done after the fall of the Berlin Wall, I hope that they will be dusting off their materials…and get back in the game with us.
Because I think Russia’s objectives are to stymy and to confront and to undermine American power whenever and wherever they can. And I don’t think there’s much to be surprised about that.
So where we can work with them – that’s one of the criticisms that sometimes comes from the right – the Republicans? “What did the reset ever accomplish?” Well, while Medvedev was President actually quite a lot. We did the new START agreement. We got cooperation on Iran because when we got the Security Council to pass the sanctions that we’ve been working so hard on that was under Medvedev in June of 2010. We got support to ship lethal material and equipment across Russia to resupply our troops. We got a lot.
Now, that all changed once Putin announced he was going to be President again.
Now, I don’t admire very much about Mr. Putin but the idea that you could stand up and say “I will be your next President”, you know, that does have a certain attraction to it. [Laughter]
…We are not spending the time, we’re not thinking, we’re not digging deep into what are we going to do…We have to do more to get back talking about how we try to confine, contain, deter Russian aggression in Europe and beyond, and try to figure out what are the best tools for doing that…
I was always of that opinion and expressed it vocally during the administration and nothing that has happened since has in any way persuaded me otherwise.
And I think we’ve got to be much more global in our thinking and globally present.
The rebalancing to Asia otherwise known as the pivot was in response to the very real sense of abandonment that Asian leaders expressed to me.
My phone calls to them before I ever went to the region in February of 2009, you know, they believed that because we were so focused in Afghanistan and we were so focused in Iraq and obviously had to be given all that we had invested that that we were just not paying attention to the developments in Asia.
I think we’ve come some ways in trying to rebalance. But we have a long way to go and there’s much at stake in how we deal with all the players in Asia.
I’m hoping that the upcoming trip by President Xi Jinping produces some positive outcomes.
I thought the climate agreement was quite consequential having been in Copenhagen in ’09 with the President when we literally had to break into a meeting where the Chinese were consolidating India, South Africa, and Brazil against any kind of movement toward the non-advanced economies taking responsibility.
So I think we’ve got some good stakes in the ground, but we don’t have a strategy yet that it’s going to be consistent.
The final thing I would say about this…and I alluded to this in my remarks, I think one of our real problems right now is we don’t have a consistent foreign policy that is bipartisan, let alone non-partisan. And I think that’s a problem.
I mean, I was appalled when those Republican Senators wrote to the Ayatollah. I thought it was incredibly, you know, short-sighted and just wrongheaded.
And I don’t know how we rebuild a consistent foreign policy from administration to administration regardless of Republican or Democrat. It was a lot easier in a bipolar world – us versus the Soviet Union – I understand that. But I think we really have to work at it.
And we can’t work at it if we don’t have a set of strategic pillars and organizing principles that we can present to our own people and present to the Congress and present to the world. So I think we have work to do.
…What should America do to step up to the crisis of migration? Even if it is not on our front door, it is a moral issue is it not for the world?
If we remember back to that time, Prime Minister Cameron had lost the vote in the Parliament. He wanted to show support for the President’s policy of taking some limited military action in light of Syria’s use of chemical weapons.
So it became clear that there was going to be a difficult vote in the Congress. Not clear at all that it would be successful, which would have left the President with authority – certainly with executive authority to act – but since it had become a public debate, it would have been a much more difficult decision for him to make.
I do think that not being able to follow through on it cost us. I am certain of that. That still comes back in conversations that people have with me both here at home and people from other countries.
But I do think it was a net positive to get as much of the chemical weapons out as we could and there was no way we could have done that without Russian cooperation.
I think there was hope after that kind of cooperation produced positive results that then we could go back to talking more broadly with the Russians about what needed to be done in Syria and what needed to be done with Assad. They did not reciprocate on that.
So, you know, it’s like much in international relations. It’s a mixed picture. Some positive, you know, some negative.
With respect to the refugees, I have said I think that we’re coming up on the U.N. General Assembly, I think there should be an emergency global gathering where the U.N. literally tries to get commitments.
You know, we did that with Haiti. After the Haiti earthquake, we had a huge gathering at the U.N. where literally it was like a pledging conference where we said “What are you going to do? What can you contribute?” And little countries to big countries all stepped up and it was a great show of support in the face of a terrible natural disaster.
We need to do something similar and I’ve publicly called on the U.N. to convene such a gathering. I do it again today in front of all of you.
The United States has to be at the table, has to be leading it. We were in a strong position to do that on Haiti.
I think even though it’s not on our doorstep, we have a real interest in working not just with our European friends – I think this is a global responsibility.
And if you’re too far away or for whatever reason you don’t think you could take refugees, then you have to contribute money. You should be supporting not only those refugees fleeing but the incredible that Jordan and Lebanon and Turkey have been doing and they have not gotten the financial support they need.
In fact, the last I checked, the U.N. appeal had only reached 37%. So there is both financial work and contributions that need to be forthcoming and countries need to be more open and willing to take refugees.
I obviously want the United States to do our part but I also want this to be a global response and so I hope that with all these leaders gathered, with Pope Francis addressing the United Nations General Assembly in just about two weeks, we can see something like that very visible with people literally making their commitments nation by nation or in the case of the EU or other organizations as well.
If you agree with that, how would you see capitalizing on those shared interests – the concerns about Iran – going forward?
I think there is an opportunity here. I really do. I don’t think it’s easy but let’s just go back a few years.
Not so long ago, Israel and Turkey were working very closely together on a number of issues.
Then came the flotilla and then came the response by the Israeli military then came many years of, you know, real hard feelings that got harder and harder and we lost what was not just a working relationship but a real bridge.
Similarly there have been a number of instances where in the past Israel has worked in common concert with a number of Gulf countries. Israel is now back in a very productive relationship with Egypt, obviously with Jordan.
So there are the pieces of national and regional interests here that I think very diligently and probably frustratingly could be pulled back together.
I don’t know that it’s something that the United States can lead but it certainly is something that we can catalyze and encourage.
And I think there is potential there because as I said in my speech, I will do everything I can to convince Turkey and Qatar that supporting Hamas is not in their interests. It’s not in the region’s interests. It’s certainly not in Egypt’s interest. They both care deeply about, you know, what happens in Egypt for somewhat different than others but they care.
And so I think we to build the case and I think American diplomats could help build that case and then look for ways – I spent you know literally years trying to get the Israelis to finally apologize to the Turks on the flotilla.
And there was one memorable day during one of my vacations where I was literally talking to the Israelis, I was talking to Henry Kissinger. I was talking to everybody that I could find to make this strategic argument, which we all believed, that the sooner that Israel did that that the sooner they could get back to some kind of discussion perhaps.
Finally that happened when President Obama went to Israel and I was very happy that now we have a different Turkey with a different kind of set of challenges. But interests remain the same.
You know, Turkey interests for stability are not so different than they were even though some of the leadership attitudes seem to have altered.
So I would like to see us do everything we can. I would like to make it a high priority of that.
I hope that this administration in the last year and a half or so of its term will be similarly doing that because let’s start seeing what we could do…You know, you don’t know what can achieve until you try to put the pieces together. And I think the more we try to put those pieces together, the more we’ll know whether or not something can come of it.
With respect to the lack of support for the agreement, honestly, I think it’s in some instances genuine. Just as I said in my remarks, I think that there people who I deeply respect on the Democratic side certainly and I would respect them on the Republican side as well who just have concerns that they don’t feel have been answered.
But I think the driving force behind it is, you know, to close ranks against the President, against this kind of diplomacy but without offering an alternative. And that’s what I find – I mean, I don’t mind debating alternatives.
I mean, when we did the new START treaty, it was really hard to get the votes for that. I remember you know going up and making the case but we got some Republican votes.
But we’re living in a very partisan atmosphere right now and I think we do have to do more just as we – I’ll end with this by saying – just as we have to in diplomacy reach out to people constantly if not to persuade to join with us to eliminate an argument that they have, that they won’t join because they have been consulted, they have been brought along, they have been briefed, we have to do that with the Congress as well and it’s not easy if they don’t even have open minds. But we still have to do it so that we can be in the position of saying, “You know, we told you this. We offered you this. We briefed you this. We gave you this information. And you haven’t come forth with any kind of rationale to oppose us. You’re just opposing us.”
So it’s very political after discounting those who I think are genuinely skeptical.

…Thank you so much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
Are we going to win this election in 2016? Yes, we are.
Thank you. My heart is just racing. I am so, so excited to be here. Grateful for everything you and this state have meant to me and to my family.
I’m honored to have the support of so many proud New Hampshire Democrats.
And especially, especially your terrific governor, your amazing senator who used to be governor.
You know, Maggie and Jeanne are women who know to solve problems, and they bring common sense and common purpose to everything they do.
I also want to thank Congresswoman Annie Kuster, all the state senators and representatives, executive councilors, local leaders, grassroots organizers, and especially volunteers who are working their hearts out for this campaign.
I have a great idea. I think we should just transport all of you everywhere we go around the country together.
You know, as much fun as this is, as exciting as the atmosphere in here is, we have work to do as Democrats.
I want to be your partner to build our party here in this state and across this nation to keep our progress going.
We’ve come a long way, haven’t we, these past 6.5 years, and thanks to the hard work and sacrifice of the American people and to the leadership of the Democratic President in the White House – Barack Obama – we’re standing again but we’re not yet running the way America should.
Wages still aren’t rising for most people. The cost of everything from college to prescription drugs keeps going up.
Inequality is still too big a problem.
And you know, in America if you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. That is the basic bargain of this country.
You know, that’s the promise that my grandfather believed in when he went to work everyday in the Scranton lace mills.
I’m the granddaughter of a factory worker who believed in America and that life could be better for his children and it was.
His three sons went to college.
My dad, after serving in the Navy in World War II, he started a small business. He saved and he sacrificed because he believed his small business printing fabric in Chicago could provide us with a middle class life.
And you know what? It did.

And now, within three generations, from that factory worker to that small business owner, I’m standing here asking for your support to be President of this great country that we love.
And so, that is what we are fighting for as Democrats.
We are fighting to make sure that dream, that promise is just as vital and real tomorrow and the years later as it was for my grandfather and my father.
You know, when my husband put people first – the 1992 campaign for New Hampshire was so supportive. When we got into the White House, he realized that he had inherited real economic problems from his Republican predecessors.
That seems to happen. Have you noticed?
You know, I say this without trying to be partisan or personal but the economy just works better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And so, after eight years of hard work on a political heavy lifting, the end of Bill’s second term there was a really important set of statistics that represented the progress we made – 23 million new jobs, a balanced budget.
But you know what was most important to me? For the first time in decades, everybody benefitted, not just those at the top but people in the middle, people at the bottom. Everybody saw their incomes go up.
You know, I went to the Senate. The good people of New York sent me to the Senate in 2001, and I was excited because I thought look at what we’ve accomplished.
We have turned around the economy. We have taken control over our fiscal future.
Just think of what we could have done with that balanced budget and a surplus. We could have made Social Security solvent for as far as the eye could see.
We could have have invested in education, in science, in research to make us smarter and stronger and richer.
But you know what happened. The Republicans went back to trickle down economics – one of the worst ideas ever to come out of the 1980s right along with big hair.
They took their eyes off the financial markets, took their eyes off the mortgage markets.
And President Obama inherited an even bigger mess.
I remember he called me right after the election, asked me to come see him in Chicago.
I didn’t know why at the time. Turned out he wanted to ask me to be Secretary of State.
But when I got there what he wanted to talk about was how dangerous the economic situation was. He said it was so much worse than they told us.
He was worried about a Great Depression, not just a Great Recession.
And he had to really work hard. Under his leadership and thanks to the sacrifice of so many Americans, we pulled back from the brink of depression, saved the auto industry, curb Wall Street abuses, and provided health care to 16 million people.

Now, the only way the Republicans can win is if they count on collective amnesia from the American people.
President Obama deserves a lot more credit than he gets for helping us avoid an economic catastrophe.
And I know it’s very inconvenient for our Republican friends but the facts do speak for themselves.
Economic growth is stronger under Democratic Presidents. Unemployment is lower. The stock market rises faster. Businesses do better. And deficits are smaller.
And one of my favorite inconvenient facts, under Republicans recessions happen four times as frequently as under Democrats.
So, one would have to wonder why would anybody who cares about the economy, which is all of us, why would anybody who cares about seeing paychecks rise again, fighting inequality, raising the minimum wage, dealing with the challenges that confront us, believe that going back to the failed policies of trickle-down economics would help anybody except for those people at the top?
Now, I am not running for my husband’s third term or President Obama’s third term; I’m running for my first term.
And I will proudly carry forward this record of Democratic achievement. We know what works and what doesn’t.
It works when middle class families get a raise. That will be my mission from my first day as President to my last.
We need growth that is strong, fair, and long-term. So the rewards of success don’t just go to those at the top.
You know, when a company does well, shareholders and executives aren’t the only ones who should benefit. The people who work at that company should as well.
The people who actually produce the profits should share in that. If it can work for Market Basket across New England, it can work across America.
But here’s what doesn’t work. When 25 hedge fund managers earn more each year than all the kindergarten teachers in America combined.
There’s a tax loophole that lets them treat their pay like investment gains. You’ve heard of it – the carried interest loophole – rather than normal income like everyone else.
I have called for ending of that loophole since 2007. I am sick of multi-millionaires paying a lower tax rate than a teacher or a nurse.
I’ll close that loophole and I will reform our tax code so everyone pays for their fair share, particularly those who have the most benefits.
I have proposed incentives to encourage long-term investments in small businesses, hard-hit communities and building our country not the quick speculation and the trading that goes on.
I want to see tax credits that will encourage apprentices and profit sharing.
I want young people brought into our economy again so that they have a chance to have a better future.
I’ll raise the minimum wage so that no one who works hard in America has to live in poverty.
I’ll fight for small businesses that create the jobs in America.
We’re a small business country. I want to be the small business President.
I don’t think we should be tilting our tax code, our economic policy toward big businesses that can hire lawyers and lobbyists.
Most jobs in America come from small businesses. That’s why I have a plan to make it easier for entrepreneurs to get loans and avoid red tape.
I’ll hold corporations accountable when they gouge Americans on drug prices or pollute our environment or bust unions and exploit workers.
And that’s just the beginning. We’re going to do what works.
Because as important as economic worries are and I hear them everywhere, they’re not the only ones that families face, are they?
If you get out there and you actually listen to people as I’ve done all over New Hampshire, you hear about problems that rarely make the headlines but they keep families up at night.
I’ve listened to those stories. I’ve heard about the heartaches and the hopes.
It really has motivated me to roll up my sleeves to come up with solutions that can help make a difference in the lives of families here and everywhere across our country.
For example, I never expected that substance abuse and mental health would be major issues in my campaign until I came to Keene on my very first trip.
And then I started listening. I heard story after story about heroin, pills, meth, alcohol, other addictions.
I met a grandmother who’s taking responsibility for raising her grandchild because her daughter is struggling with addiction. She can’t be the parent she should be.
I’ve sat and listened to moms and dads who’ve lost their children, counselors and doctors and police officers who’ve done everything they can to help save people.
One man in Laconia said to me the other day, “I don’t want to go to more funerals.”
When you hear those stories, it’s hard not only to be moved and sad but it’s also motivating.
At my first town hall about this issue in Keene, hundreds and hundreds of people packed into the gymnasium and they told their stories.
And in Laconia just a few days ago, we heard about solutions.
I’ve got a plan to do something about this epidemic. More and better treatment and prevention, especially for young people, making sure everyone who writes prescriptions is trained in addiction, putting rescue drugs like Maxolon [sp] in the hands of first responders.
Criminal justice reform so non-violent drug users get time to heal instead of time in jail.
There are so many stories that people share with me. That’s what drives my campaign. That’s what gets me up everyday.
Often I’m asked “How can you do this?”
Well, it is challenging but it is also incredibly rewarding because I meet people who are so resilient, so filled with purpose and hope.
I want to be the President who takes on the big challenges.
Look, we have to worry about how we make sure Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. We have to deal with the refugee crisis in Europe and so much else.
But I also want to be the President who keeps listening, who hears about the challenges you talk about around your kitchen table like student debt.
A student here in New Hampshire. A student really summed it up for me, saying that paying for college shouldn’t be the hardest thing about going to college.
And yesterday, Gov. Hassan and I were at the University of New Hampshire where we were talking about my plan and where we heard from two students who very clearly and emotionally talked about what their challenges were trying to get the education they’ve always dreamed of.

I call my plan the New College Compact.
As President, I will make sure families can afford to send your kids to college. Everyone with student debt can refinance that debt just like a mortgage or a car loan.
Cost won’t be a barrier anymore and debt won’t hold anyone back.
I also have to say that I’ve heard a lot about another challenge that gets too little attention in our long-term looking forward into the future about what kind of country we’re going to be and how we can help people live up to their potential and that is the caregiving crisis in America.
I met a woman in Dover, who’s caring for her husband with Alzheimer’s and her mother with Alzheimer’s.
I just met a young man backstage who’s had to go to part-time work to take care of his mother with Alzheimer’s.
People don’t know where to turn. They don’t know where to get help.
As a Senator, I passed a law giving family caregivers more support, and as President I will make this a national priority for families, number one.
Every one of us knows somebody who could benefit – the veterans who deserve better care, the parents of children with autism who need help and solutions, families who can’t find facilities to provide mental health treatment for their loved ones no matter how hard they tried.
You know, it was summed up for me by a single mom who’s juggling a job and courses at a community college while raising three kids alone.
She said, “Look, I don’t expect anything to come easy.” But she asked me “Isn’t there anything to do so it isn’t quite so hard?”
There are all challenges leaders should care about – problems that don’t get nearly enough attention on the campaign trail or in Washington.
Well, I’m not only paying attention. As President, we will get results together.
Because if you want a President, if you want a President who will tell you everything that’s wrong with America and who’s to blame for it, you’ve got plenty of other choices.
And my goodness, didn’t we hear enough of that the other night at the Republican debate?
But if you want a President who will listen to you, work her heart out to make your life better, and together to build a stronger, fairer, better country, then you’re looking at her.
Because you know, this election ultimately is about finding a leader with a vision for the future broad enough to encompass this great country of ours and the skills and determination to lead us there, someone who can defend and build on the progress we’ve made not let it slip away or get ripped away.

I will stand up to all the attacks from the Super PACs and the Koch brothers every chance I get.
And I will do what I’ve always done to try to overcome the dysfunction actually to get things done like I did when I was First Lady. We didn’t get health care that time. And then I turned around and I worked with Ted Kennedy to get the Children’s Health Insurance Program to take care of more than 8 million kids.
Or when I was in the Senate and I realized that our national guards didn’t have the same access to health care and I teamed up with Lindsey Graham and we passed it. So now every single one of our national guard has that same option that they should have had before.
I have been fighting my whole life to even the odds for people who have those odds stacked against them.
That’s what I’m going to keep doing – fighting for families, fighting for fairness, fighting for you.
And I’ve learned that through a lot of experiences but I really learned it first from my own mother.
Abandoned and mistreated by her family, she was out on her own at 14, working as a house maid.
She channeled her hardship into a deep commitment to serving and respecting others.
She’s been my touchstone guiding me through my life of service.
My first job out of law school wasn’t at some big New York law firm; it was with the Children’s Defense Fund, standing up for kids who needed a partner.
Every step along the way, I’ve stood up for women, for children, for families, for underdogs. Everyone who needs a champion, and I’m just getting warmed up.
I believe in America but I believe in America we should have each other’s backs. We should lift each other up, not tear each other down.
And that is especially true when it comes to lifting up women who deserve equal pay for equal work.
And that means too every family deserves access to quality affordable child care so they can actually go to work.
Every American should have access to paid family leave so you don’t have to choose between a paycheck and taking care of your baby or your mom or your dad.
I’m a proud Democrat because we’re the ones who stand up and say “The Affordable Care Act is here to stay.”
We have come too far. We have fought to let anyone take it away.
We are the ones also who understand we have to make Social Security even stronger and especially for widowed, divorced, and single women who are the poorest older people in America.
We’re the ones who support teachers not scapegoat them, who will invest in universal pre-kindergarten and early childhood education so all of our kids get the best possible start.
It is past time for us to get over the toxic debates about education that have paralyzed us for too long. Let’s focus on what actually works to help teachers teach and children learn.

As President, I’m going to actually listen to teachers and learn what they know from being in those classrooms every single day.
I will fight for strong public schools in every zip code and community across America.
And I am honored, I am honored to have earned the endorsement of the NEA right here in New Hampshire.
And Democrats believe we don’t have to choose between protecting our environment, combating climate change and growing our economy. We can do that embracing clean, renewable energy.
I want us to set big goals in this country again. I can remember – I think there’s also a few of you who could also remember – when President Kennedy challenged us to send a moon mission that would land a man on the moon and bring him back within a decade. And a lot of people thought that was impossible, didn’t they?
Nobody knew what would happen. I was sure because the President set that goal that America could get it done and we did.
That’s the President I want to be. I want to challenge us again, particularly the young people again.
So by the end of my first term, we will have installed a half a billion more solar panels. And by the end of my second, we will produce enough renewable energy to power every home in America. We can do this.
We can take our climate change – not deny it – but take it on and at the same time create millions of new jobs and businesses that will make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
And Democrats believe we’re the only ones left who believe this.
We have to stop the flow of secret, unaccountable money that distorts our elections and drowns out the voices of American voters.
You know, it’s predicted by some our next President may have as many as three appointments to the Supreme Court.
Now, if you weren’t convinced to vote for a Democrat before I hope you are now.
I will appoint justices who will protect every citizen’s right to vote instead of every corporation’s right to buy elections
And if necessary, I will work to pass a constitutional amendment to undo Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United.
And we Democrats believe that no matter who you are, what you look like, what faith you practice or who you love, America has a place for you and you should have the same opportunity as anyone else to live up to your potential.
So we have a great agenda. We know what it means to be a Democrat. We’re going to fight back against those who will do, say, and spend whatever it takes to turn our country in a very different direction.
Who watched the Republican debate the other night? Oh, you gluttons for punishment, you.
15 candidates, 5 hours, not a single fighter for the middle class.
And the fact checkers are having a field day with their answers.
The Republicans’ positions are not just factually inaccurate, they are deeply out of touch and out of date.
Not one of them offered a credible plan to make college more affordable or combat climate change.
Did you hear anything about family leave or pre-school?
Or about putting an end to gun violence that plagues our communities every single day?
Not one of them – not one of them is willing to say loudly and clearly “Black lives matter”.

And of course, no solutions for skyrocketing prescription drug costs, no ideas about how to raise incomes, no ideas at all when you stop to think about it.
But there was one statement I had to agree with. Yeah, hard to believe, right?
As Lindsey Graham said, Hillary Clinton has a list a mile long to help the middle class. [Laughter]
Well, he’s right about that. He’s absolutely right about that. I do.
It was the most honest thing anyone’s said that night.
And I’m going to keep adding to that list, keep fighting for the middle class, keep showing that voters have a real choice in this election.
Don’t be distracted by their flamboyant frontrunner, trying to bully and buy his way to the presidency. His latest outrage – the way he handled the question about President Obama was shocking but not surprising. He’s been trafficking in prejudice and paranoia throughout this campaign.
But I’ve got to tell you, if you look at the policies of the other Republican candidates, they are just Trump without the pizazz or the hair.
He says hateful things about immigrants. They don’t support a real path to citizenship. We need comprehensive reform not demagoguery and deportations.
And we have heard Mr. Trump insult and demean women.
You know, by the way, Donald, when you say you cherish women, that really doesn’t make it any better. Why don’t you stop cherishing women and start respecting women?
Listen closely, he’s not the only one. All of the Republican candidates want to defund Planned Parenthood.
Many are willing to shut down our government to do it no matter the consequences for our country.
We are talking about a woman’s health service that provides half a million breast cancer exams every year. That’s what they want to stop.
Here in New Hampshire you know about this. Last month your Executive Council cut off funding to Planned Parenthood in this state. Well, actually three men on the Executive Council voted to deny women access to health care across New Hampshire.
I’d like them along with the Republican candidates to meet the mom who caught her cancer early thanks to a screening. Or the teenager who avoided an unintended pregnancy because she had access to birth control. Or the survivor of sexual assault who got emergency contraception.
You know, these extreme views might be right for the Republican primary but they are dead wrong for America.
And I know when I talk like this some of the Republicans say I’m playing the gender card.
Well, if calling for equal pay and paid leave and women’s health is playing the gender card, deal me in.
I’m going to keep fighting. I’m going to fight until every woman has the rights, the opportunities, and the respect she deserves, until every little girl in America knows without a doubt she can grow up to be anything she wants – even President of the United States.
…Let’s go out and wage this campaign and elect Democrats at every level. Let’s take back school boards. Let’s take back the legislatures. Let’s take back every position all the way to the White House.
Because if this election is about America’s future not America’s fear, Democrats will win.
And when you hear Mr. Trump say he wants to make America great again, respond “America is great. We just to make it work for all the people in our country again!”
So, I think we’re going to have a great campaign. It’s going to be fun. Because what makes the other folks uncomfortable is what makes America what we are today – our diversity, our ingenuity, our innovation, the signs of American dynamism, our immigrant culture – all that we do to really build a country where everybody has a place, where there are no limits on what we can achieve when we put our common interests ahead of our self-interests and our common sense ahead of non-sense.
I am fighting for that America. I’m fighting for all Americans, not just some, for the struggling, the striving, and the successful. I’m fighting for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refuse to be knocked out.
I am fighting for you Democrats and New Hampshire and America. Let’s go out and make the future we want to see.
Thank you all and God bless you!

But it’s also as we now know very clearly the way that the Republicans are trying to bring my – as they admit – poll numbers down.
And so I’m very committed to answering questions, being as transparent as possible. I’m scheduled to testify before their committee, which we now know is nothing but a partisan exercise.
So it’s really both, Savannah. It’s both “Hey, you know what? Turn the clock back. It was allowed. I was thinking about many other things than my email account when I became Secretary of States because we had so many issues.”
And I have gone further than anybody that I’m aware in American history. Now it’s not a long history because we haven’t had emails that long. But as long as we’ve had them, I’ve gone longer and farther to try to be as transparent as possible. Nobody else has done that.
And if by the time this is over, I’m a little – you know – I’m a little embarrassed that the emails were so boring in many instances, but they will all be out there; people will be able to make their decisions.
I knew the Ambassador. I identified him. I asked him to go there. I asked the President to nominate him.
There have been seven investigations led mostly by Republicans in the Congress and they were non-partisan and they reached conclusions that, first of all, I and nobody did anything wrong but there were changes we could make.
This committee was set up as they have admitted for the purpose of making a partisan political issue out of the deaths of four Americans. I would have never done that, and if I were President and there were Republicans or Democrats who were thinking about that, I would have done everything to shut it down.
If they’re going to have it still running, I’ll be there. And I’m looking forward to answering questions about the real things when I’m there and I’m looking forward to having a chance to explain everything we’ve done, everything I’ve asked to happen. But it’s not appropriate what they’ve done from obviously their own admission.
So you know, look, I’ve been around this political situation for a long time but some things are just beyond the pale.
And I’m happy to go if it still is in operation to testify. I’m happy to turn over my emails.
I’ve gone further than anybody ever has. That’s okay. I’m willing to do that.
But the real issue here is what happened to four brave Americans.
…Thank you all. Thank you very, very much. Thank you…
I’m really delighted and honored to be here…
We’re here on the campus of a wonderful community college, very much like the one in Oregon where young people were going to school and some not so young.
You know, the victims I read were between 18 and 67. You know, people attending classes, improving their skills, teaching, learning, thinking about the future, which was so ended senselessly, tragically.
On that very same day that those people were killed in Oregon, a five-month old baby strapped into her car seat in the back of a car was killed by a stray bullet in Cleveland – the third baby in just a few months to be murdered in Cleveland.
Between 88 and 92 people a day are killed by guns in America.
Last figures we have for a whole year is more than 33,000.
It’s the leading cause of death for young African-American men, the second leading cause for young Hispanic men, the fourth leading cause for young white men.
This epidemic of gun violence knows no boundaries, knows no limits of any kind.
And when this happens, people are quick to say that they offer their thoughts and prayers. That’s not enough. How many people have to die before we actually act, before we come together as a nation?
You know, on the Republican side, Mr. Trump was asked about it, said something like, you know, things like that happen in the world. Gov. Bush said “Yeah, stuff happens.”
No, that’s an admission of defeat and surrender to a problem that is killing 33,000 Americans [each year].
It’s time for us to say, “Wait a minute. We’re better than this. Our country is better than this.”

And there are steps we can take that improve gun safety and further the prevention of violence by guns.
And today, I am proposing what I consider to be common sense approaches.
A majority of Americans supports universal background check. In fact, a majority of gun owners support universal background checks.
We had a bipartisan bill that didn’t make it through the Senate.
But we need to go back and with all of our hearts, working not just in Washington but from the grassroots up, demand that we have universal background checks.
And we have to also – we have to close the loopholes. You know, we’ve got what’s called the gun show loophole and we’ve got what’s now being called the Charleston loophole.
When the Brady bill was passed, which wasn’t easy as you recall but it did pass, exceptions were made for gun shows and then later it was extended to include online sales. And 40% of guns are sold [through] gun shows, online sales. We need to close that loophole so that when we have a universal background check, it will cover everybody.
And then another loophole is what happened when the young man who murdered the nine people at Bible study in the church basement in Charleston applied for a gun, the loophole says if they don’t get the background check done in three days, you can still go buy the gun.
Turned out he had a criminal background and you know how record keeping is – people were still searching through it but at the end of three days he goes and buys the gun because we don’t yet have it automated enough, we don’t yet have the information shared from all levels of government. And he got his gun and was determined to go use it to kill nine innocent people.
We also must address the very serious problem of military style weapons on our streets.
And you know, people don’t really have the chance. Lots of times when terrible murders like this take place, somebody will say “Oh, you know, if we only had more guns.”
You walk into class, you’re driving your baby around in a car seat, you’re going to church, somebody has an automatic weapon or even worse an assault weapon that is a military instrument of war and you’re somehow supposed to stop that with your own gun? That has never made any sense.
And so from my perspective, we have got to keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them – domestic abusers, people with serious mental health problems.
There’s got to be a better tracking and record-keeping.
You know, I remember the terrible massacre at Virginia Tech. The shooter there had been involuntarily committed and there was no record of it.
And if there is information about people who are felons, who are suffering from serious mental illness, who are domestic abusers, we got to get that information into the record-keeping so that the universal background checks will actually show you that here’s somebody who shouldn’t have it.
Now, some people say to me “Well, does this really work?”
Well, I can tell you this: The best data that we have is that since the Brady bill implemented background checks, more than 2.4 million people have been stopped from buying a gun and over a million of those were felons. So there were records of those particular potential purchasers.

And I want to work with all of you – I want to work with sensible gun safety advocates as well as gun owners. I want to work with people from the grassroots up all the way to Washington.
Because how much longer will we just shrug – “Oh my gosh, something else terrible happened” – whether it’s in your neighborhood…or at a community college or the murder of children in their classrooms.
We’re going to go to the town hall portion of this, but I want to ask one of the mothers from Sandy Hook, if you wouldn’t mind, to just come join me for a minute because I want you to hear from her.
Because so many of the parents – you know – so many of the parents of these precious children who were murdered have taken the unimaginable grief that they have been bearing and have tried to be the voices that we need to hear.
And I want you to introduce yourself and maybe talk about what you and other parents are trying to do to get the changes that are necessary.
Nicole Hockley:
Thank you so much. My name is Nicole Hockley. I’m the managing director at Sandy Hook Promise and also the mother of Dylan, who was six when he was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
Gun violence prevention was nowhere on my radar before losing my son, and I wish it had been and I wish I had done something long before something that I thought could never hit my community hit me.
As part of Sandy Hook Promise, we focus very much on gun safety legislation and the common sense practices that you’re speaking of. So thank you so much for taking this on and speaking out.
We also are very much focused on what can we do to get ahead of the violence, get upstream of it and help identify and intervene, help people learn how to know the signs of someone who’s get risk and get help before they even get to the state of picking up a weapon to hurt someone else.
I think it’s a comprehensive solution that’s needed between gun access and responsibility as well as mental health and wellness, and working together with all the other organizations and all the other people as well as yourself, I have absolute faith that we can deliver the solution and protect children across America.
Hillary Clinton:
Thank you.
You know, I think what you’ve just heard really reinforces how nobody knows what might happen because we haven’t done what we need to do to try to make any of us, but particularly our children, safe.
So that’s what’s behind the proposals that I’m making. They’re not new. There’s nothing unique about them other than the fact that I am so determined we’re going to do everything we possibly can to get this done…
… I have said we need a movement that people really will be part of, no matter what other issue that is on your minds, and if you care about our safety, the great hope that we can protect who are going about their daily business should be at the top.
And therefore, I’m really asking everybody regardless of politics or partisanship or candidates or anything else to think of the ways that each of us can do more to try to provide that measure of gun safety that will save lives and prevent violence.

Question on CDC research on gun violence that was defunded by Republicans in the 1990s:
Hillary Clinton:
I agree with you. And what’s referring to is that the Centers for Disease, you know, is responsible for looking at public health issues.
You know, if there’s dirty water that’s making people sick, we are expecting them to tell us what to do to prevent that.
So they were researching gun violence and trying to figure out who is more likely to commit violence, what kinds of warning signs might there be.
And for very sad reasons basically, you’re right, the Republicans stopped the research. But it even goes further than that.
You know, there is a law in Florida – and I want you to hear this because it was so shocking at first that I really didn’t believe it – there is a law in Florida that makes it a felony for a pediatrician to talk with families about being sure they keep guns safely away from children.
Literally, a doctor can go to jail in Florida.
Now, if you’re a pediatrician and, you know, you’re running through your check list – “Are you keeping your household poisons out of the way of your kids?” especially if you have toddlers who are exploring everything. “Do you make sure that your sharp knives are kept away and are they high enough up so that kids can’t accidentally get them?”
It seems perfectly reasonable to me to say, “Hey, if you’ve got guns in the house, are you sure they’re really secure?” because too many little kids get ahold of them and we read about it every week and they kill themselves, they kill their little friends.
I mean, it is the doctor’s responsibility to try to work with the families so that the families can try to keep their babies safe.
And if you’re in Florida, you could go to jail.
So I want to make the argument and work towards the result that, you know, we can learn a lot more about what are the characteristics of people who should not have guns…
As we’re learning more, certainly what we know about the killer from Sandy Hook, now the killer from Oregon, you know, there probably were some comments, some actions that might have set off some alarms in people.
But if we don’t have the good information so that people can be better informed, how do we help them. So I agree with you – no issue should be beyond study in America.
I mean, that’s like a denial of everything we believe in our country.
And you know, going along with that so far as I know, the gun industry and the gun sellers are the only business in American that is totally free of liability from their behavior. Nobody else – nobody else – is given that immunity.
And I mean, that just illustrates the extremism that has taken over this debate…
In fact, when the NRA was on one of their tirades and calling the Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms enforcers, you know, “jackbooted thugs”, President George H.W. Bush resigned as an NRA member and said, “No, I’m not going to be associated with that.”
So, I mean, ideally what I would love to see is gun owners – responsible gun owners, hunters – form a different organization and take back the Second Amendment from these extremists.

Question on troops withdrawal from Afghanistan:
Hillary Clinton:
…First, I want to say how distressed I am by the bombing of the hospital in Kunduz. And I know Defense Secretary Carter has said there will be a full, thorough investigation to try to get to the bottom of that. But it’s deeply regrettable. It came within the context of the Taliban taking back a city in the north and the Afghan army, which has performed very bravely. You know, this is not an army that runs away. This is an army that stands and fights. But they don’t have the experience. They don’t have a lot of the support that they need to be as successful as they are trying to be.
You know, I think that we have got to continue to work with the Afghan government and the Afghan military to support them because they are fighting. It’s a different story in other parts of the world. But there in Afghanistan, you know, people are fighting for the gains that have been made in the last 13, 14 years.
There still is a lot of conflict. There still is a lot of danger. The Taliban is not going away, we know that.
But there has been so many positive developments. You know, the number of girls and women in school, at work, studying in the United States, going home to try to help their country, businesses that are able to operate now as opposed to being under the thumb of the Taliban and being forced to basically pay tribute all the time to the Taliban.
There have been a lot of advances in health. You know, Afghanistan had the worst maternal mortality rate in the world and thanks to help from not just the United States but from other countries working with Afghan doctors and nurses, you know, mothers are surviving child births.
Some of the things that are so basic that are now so much better in Afghanistan.
So I don’t know the specifics or what I will be facing in January of 2017. But Afghanistan is a country that has tried and the people are really focused on getting beyond the violence and the extremism from the Taliban and I don’t think we should just walk away.
So I will do what I can to help.

Question on how Clinton would respond to national tragedies like Hurricane Joaquin and the Oregon college shooting:
Hillary Clinton:
…You know, let’s take the natural disaster question first, because Hurricane Joaquin was on everyone’s mind. Thankfully it didn’t hit as hard as they feared although South Carolina is getting battered with terrible torrential rains.
I think one of the most important decisions any new President has is who’s going to run FEMA and who’s going to be prepared to work with cities, states, and the national government to get prepared for incoming natural disasters to get pre-positioned the equipments and the food and the experts that you’re going to need to be able to help people. And I will take that very seriously looking for someone who has real hands-on experience, not from a 30,000 feet flying over it, but who has been there, who has had to go in and figure out what to do to help people evacuate, what needed to be done to try to, you know, do as much as possible to help people save their homes but not stay in their homes. There’s just a lot of hard-won wisdom.
And because of climate change, we are seeing an increased number of weather events, you know, all over the world, not just in our country.
And we need a mapping project – here I’ll give you a perfect example of why I disagree so profoundly with the current Republicans…
But the current Republicans in the Congress are trying to cut dramatically the money the federal government puts into weather forecasting, and to me that is so – what’s that old saying – you know, “Penny wise, pound foolish”?
We’ve got to have the best possible weather forecasting not only for agriculture and everyday occurrences but also to get ahead of natural disasters and events like big storms.
So I will appoint good people. I will look across the government to figure out what we need to do better so that we have excellent communication with states and local governments and that we keep people well informed so that they can make good decisions for themselves and that we move really quickly to come in after something has happened – because we can’t stop the weather, we know that – but to really ready to get in there to help the clean-up and the recovery.
And I think that people need to be empowered to help themselves too.
You know, I’m a little worried that sometimes the federal government’s message is “Don’t do anything until we get there.” That’s not my message.
Help each other. Help fix the problems. Help work and take pictures and report things because people are afraid to do that because then they say “I want to get some help from the disaster assistance funding” and they’re told “Well, you should have left it alone.” No, you shouldn’t leave it alone. You should be out there helping your neighbors. You should be out there – and my goodness, everybody in the world has a cell phone. Keep a record of it. So then when the federal government – FEMA, Small Business Administration, and others – show up, you can say “Here’s what we had right after the storm. Here’s what we’ve been doing to clean up. Here’s what we’ve spent on plywood and boarding and the big vacuums to clean up the dirt and all of that.”
I’m very hands-on, very practical, very “Let’s get it done”, and that’s how I would do this.
Question on Clinton’s vision for the U.S. in the next decade:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, that’s a great question…
Well, first of all, I want it to truly be the country we all love and cherish and that has given so much to every one of us who is here in this room today and that still holds out that same promise to you – if you work hard and you do your part, you will be able to get ahead and stay ahead and pursue your dreams. That’s what I want for every young person in our country.
And that means we ought to get the economy working better so that it produces more jobs with rising incomes and I have a lot to say about that but it’s really critical because I want you to feel like whatever you choose to do you’re going to be part of this great country of ours.
I want the education system – sounds like it’s working pretty well for you – I want it to work for everybody and particularly starting with our youngest kids to get them off to a better start so that they can successful in school.
And I want college to be affordable for you so we’ve got to get the costs down, and I’ve offered my…New College Compact to do just that because I just don’t want to see young people with ambition, talent, of good work ethic not be able to either to start school or finish school because it’s too expensive and they can’t afford it. We have got to deal with that.
And we’ve got to get the cost down so that people don’t go into debt. And I know that this is a problem in New Hampshire and we have to refinance the debt that people have so they can be more free to pursue their own interests and they can actually move out of their parents’ home and maybe rent or buy one and get on with their lives.
And you know with health care I want us to have more and more people who have insurance so that they have quality affordable health care, and I want us to deal with the big substance abuse epidemic so that we begin to turn the tide on heroin and pills and other addictions that are ruining people’s lives.
And going back to the gun discussion, we’ve got to have more treatment for mental health and we have to figure out how to help more people get the treatment assuming it is available.
And I want the world to be safer. I want the world that you will become an adult in to still be led by the United States because there is no alternative. The United States – if we don’t lead, nobody leads; you have a vacuum and that vacuum is filled by a lot of bad actors including terrorist groups who will take advantage of their neighbors and eventually even threaten us.
And I want to protect our rights – our civil rights, our human rights, gay rights, women’s rights. I want to protect the rights of Americans.
We have a lot of work to do. And I can’t possibly even as President do all of that. This has to be done by everybody working together, everybody standing up for the kind of country that we want to live in and we want to see for our children.
And you know, I’m a grandmother as you know, and I will just say this: I’m a granddaughter of a factory worker. You know, my grandfather worked in the Scranton lace mills in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He worked really hard. And he did to support his family and he did it so that his sons would have a better life. And they did. All three of his sons actually ended up going to college. And my dad started a small business and it was really small but it provided a really good middle-class life for us. And then here I am third generation asking all of you to elect me President.
I mean, that is the American story and I will do whatever I can as will my husband to help our granddaughter have the best possible life. But you know what? That’s not enough. It’s not enough. And that’s what I want people to understand.
You shouldn’t have to be the granddaughter of a former President or Secretary of State to believe you can fulfill your dreams in our country. You should be able to be the granddaughter of a factory worker or the grandson of a truck driver and have that same opportunity.
So every single day, I’m going to wake up in the White House and I’m going to say to myself, what am I going to do today to make sure every child in this country has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential? That is my mission as President.
Question on what policies Clinton will institute in the first 100 days in office to protect children:
Hillary Clinton:
Sadly, her question really points to what’s been happening in our country where over the last 10 years because of the Great Recession, because of the huge loss of jobs and wealth that people had built up before 2007, 2008, poverty is on the increase.
Today, 51% of the children in our public schools are eligible for low, reduced cost or free lunches.
And we were on a good path, may I say, in the 90s, we were on a good path to lift more people out of poverty. And by lifting families out of poverty, you help to lift children out of poverty.
And we are going to have to redouble our efforts to do all of that again.
I give President Obama enormous credit for digging out of the deep ditch that he was in when the Republicans left.
And there are a number of things we have to do. The top of the list is more jobs, raise the minimum wage, so people who work full-time are not still living in poverty and they could provide a better life for their children.
More jobs in general and there are a lot of great projects. We have a lot of roads and bridges and rail track and airports and ports and everything else in our country that is deteriorating and it needs to be built up, maintained so that we’re more competitive economically, and that would put millions of people to work.
And I think we can combat climate change by more clean energy jobs, which would be millions of jobs and businesses if we shifted the incentives that are still in the tax code and other parts of our government for fossil fuels to wind and solar and advanced biofuels. We would be ahead on the climate change front and we would be putting people to work. And we’re already seeing that in some parts of our country; we just need to do it all the way across.
I think people who work for corporations should be able to share in the profits, not just the CEOs but everybody up and down the line in those companies, very much like Market Basket – a place that you all know because they now have profit sharing for their employees.
I think we need to do more to support small business, who creates 60% of the jobs in America, and right now we’re behind in small business creation and growth.
We used to be number one; we’re now not even in the top 10. So I want to do more – more credit, get rid of regulations and licensing and the barriers that stand in the way for people to start their business like my dad and be able to provide a good middle class life.
And once we get the economy moving again, then we can turn our attention to how we can be good partners with families with children.
So here are some of my thoughts and I’ve worked in this area for a very long time.
First and foremost, we have to keep them safe and free from violence by strangers or those within their own homes and families.
We also need to help kids who may not have the opportunities that many of our kids and my grandchild has to get ahead and that means you need to have early childhood education. And it’s not just a – it’s not just a nice thing to do. If you don’t prepare kids their first five years, when they get to school, they will be behind. There will be an achievement gap. And then it’s really hard for the kid and the family, and the school to close that gap.
See, I happen to think talent is everywhere but I don’t think opportunity is. And I don’t know what we’re losing because we have poor kids who are not given a chance to really get off to a good start, whose brains are not being stimulated the way that will help them get a vocabulary so that they can be successful in school.
So I think the early childhood piece of this is very important.
Health care is essential. You know, I helped to start the Children’s Health Insurance back in the 90s which takes care of 8 million [children]…And that’s why I find states that don’t want to expand Medicaid to be really missing the boat.
You know, we need to have people healthy. How can we have a competitive economy if they can’t get their basic health needs met and that’s particularly true for kids.
You know, my first job out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund and we would go into areas, into schools, and kids couldn’t see and we stopped having school nurses, we stopped testing their eyesights.
I found out that I couldn’t see in fourth grade because I didn’t know I couldn’t see so my mother would of course taken me to find out. But I didn’t know. I thought the world was just a big impressionist painting and, you know, I just got up really close to the TV set. So then we had an eye exam in school and then I found out, “Oh my gosh, I really can’t see.”
Well, there are so many kids who are not getting those basic health needs met. That also holds them back.
And then of course once we’re in school, I think we should start respecting teachers again who are actually in the classrooms with the kids and trying to help them help the children.
…We now have a hunger problem again. You know, a lot of us thought that was behind us.
We have both a hunger and a nutrition problem. We have maybe not the kind of hunger that turns people into what is obviously physical malnutrition but we don’t have adequate nutrition in a lot of neighborhoods and communities, and we don’t have a lot of families who understand how to best feed their kids because what they can afford is not necessarily good for their kids but it’s affordable.
So you know we need to do more work on this to get back to where there isn’t that sense of either hunger or poor nutrition that can really affect a child’s development.
So this is something that I would do as President but I would ask everybody to help me do because there’s work to be done in every community, including Manchester.

Question on mental health:
Hillary Clinton:
…Back in the 1980s, we had a lot of debate over big institutions where people were housed but in many cases they were warehoused. And the result of a lot of investigations which showed how people were not being adequately cared for was to shut down a lot of the institutions.
At the same time, those who were worried about what would happen to people if there were no place for them were guaranteed we’d have funding and community alternatives for mental health.
So, we shut down the institutions by and large and we never really invested what we should in mental health alternatives.
That’s going to be something that I push very hard because you mentioned gun violence, which is something that’s directly related to mental health problems, the addiction issue – a lot of people with mental health challenges are self-medicating with alcohol and drugs so then they have a dual problem that has to be addressed.
So I think as we move forward with the Affordable Care Act, we have to enforce the decision that was made that people with physical health and mental health will get treatment.
But right now, a lot of insurance companies, a lot of states, a lot of businesses are not providing the kind of support you need for mental health.
When somebody is either convinced or decides to seek mental health problems, they’re very often are told, “Well, we have no place for you. Come back in six weeks or three months.” And who knows what will happen?
So you know where most people now who are presenting with mental health problems show up? They’re in our jails and our prisons. And it’s understandable because they are a harm to themselves or to others…And in most places in the country, there’s nowhere else for them to go so they’re put in jail and they may be held there for a long time without any treatment. And then they end up in prison and they’re still not getting adequate treatment.
The other point I want to say about this is because we have over-prescribed painkillers – the opioids – we have a lot of people who’ve gotten very addicted to them. And that creates a mental strain on top of whatever problems you might have.
And so we now have a lot of people who have to try to withdrawal and we have about 23 million people who are addicted in America, so when they go for help, only 1 in 10 can get it.
So you’ve got this real double whammy. People with mental health problems aren’t getting help. People with addiction and substance abuse problems are not getting help. And you’ve got to figure out how we take resources and treat both people simultaneously because too often they become interconnected and then we have a real problem.
So I pledge to you, I’m going to do everything I can – more facilities, more trained people, more insurance coverage, more revenues.

Question on college affordability:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I’ll speak for myself. He [referring to Bernie Sanders] is certainly more than capable of speaking for himself, and we’re going to have a debate in about I guess, oh, eight days. So we’ll have a chance to contrast.
But I want you – if you’re interested in this issue and I think everybody is on how we get college more affordable and how we refinance student debt, go to my website – HillaryClinton.com and it’s called the New College Compact.
But very briefly, I do have a different approach.
First of all – and my approach has been thankfully endorsed by a lot of people because I think what it does is address the many aspects of this problem.
First, we’ve got to get the cost of college down. Colleges and universities have to quit raising tuition and costs on students and families.
And so if all we do is to say we’re going to have free college but we don’t really put pressure on the colleges and the universities to lower the costs, you’re going to continue to see the costs going up and then the cost of free college will continue to go up. That, to me, is unsustainable.
So first and foremost, I want colleges and universities looking at how many administrators they need, how many buildings they need, how many different courses are no longer really relevant.
I mean, let’s take a hard look at what we are doing on campus, get those costs down, so we can keep tuition down.
Secondly, I have said that the federal government – and I have a plan – $350 billion over 10 years. So about $35 billion a year. Where we would match for every dollar that the state would put in to making college more affordable for their students, we would match them 4 to 1. But they would have to agree on some of these changes in public colleges and universities to get that money.
And then if you choose a public college or university, I will make it possible for you to go without borrowing money for tuition. But I will expect something from you like, for example, 10 hours of work per week.
I worked when I was in college. I worked when I was in law school.
And I want young people to know that this is an important value, and yes you have to work for it. But it will be for public college or university possible to not borrow money for tuition.
Now, for living expenses, I will make it possible for the Pell grants to be used for living expenses because what happens now is that young people who get a Pell grant they often find it doesn’t even cover tuition anymore. So we’ll deal with the tuition side of the public college and university. And then we’ll deal with the living expense side.
And if you do have to borrow money, it will be with a low interest rate…
I don’t think college should be free for Donald Trump’s children. Right? I think people who are well-off should have to pay for college.
I’m interested in the middle class and working people and poor kids who deserve to have a better shot at going to college and graduating.
And you know, I feel strongly that when you already have debt…we have 40 million people in America with student debt. And what I want is to refinance all that student debt because right now if you have a home mortgage or you’re making car payments, you can refinance it. We forbid you from refinancing the student debt…
And so I want us to refinance it and I want to provide everybody a chance to pay back their loans as a percentage of their income.
So if you’re a firefighter or a school principal or you’re a social worker or a police officer, whatever you’re doing that you want to do but you’re not making a lot of money, you’re not going to have to pay back at that high interest rate; you’re going to be able to pay back at about 10% of your income.
When I got out of law school and I went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund, I didn’t go to a big law firm; I went to work for a non-profit because I wanted to work on behalf of kids.
And so I was lucky enough that the university at that time offered me the chance to pay it back as a percentage.
So both Bill and I had loans and he was a law professor. After CDF, I became a law professor…and we were paying back our loans by what we could afford.
And so I want this to be as I say a compact where people do their part – obviously young people have to do their part, families have to do what they can afford to do, colleges have to pitch in and get those costs down, and the federal government with states.
Now, if states – and we’ve had this example with Medicaid – if the state says “No, we don’t want to partner with the federal government”, then I will go right to institutions like this one and I do want community colleges to be as inexpensive as possible because it’s an important step for a lot of young people to take.
So thank you all very much.
…I’m Hillary Clinton. I have been proud and privileged to serve as First Lady, as a senator from New York, and as Secretary of State.
I’m the granddaughter of a factory worker and a grandmother of a wonderful one-year-old child.
And everyday, I think about what we need to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her but for all of our children.
I have spent a very long time – my entire adult life – looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead and in particular to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential.
I’ve traveled across our country over the last months listening and learning.
And I’ve put forward specific plans about how we’re going to create more good-paying jobs by investing in infrastructure and clean energy, by making it possible once again to invest in science and research, and taking the opportunities posed by climate change to grow our economy.
At the center of my campaign is how we’re going to raise wages. Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the workers who help to make them.
And then we have to figure out how we make the tax system a fairer one. Right now, the wealthy pay too little, and the middle class pays too much. So I have specific recommendations about how we’re going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have to pay their fair share and have a series of tax cuts for middle class families.
And I want to do more to help us balance family and work. I believe in equal pay for equal work for women. But I also believe it’s about time we have paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world.
During the course of the evening tonight, I’ll have a chance to lay out all of my plans and the work that I’ve done behind them.
But for me, this is about bringing our country together again and I will do everything I can to heal the divides – the divides economically because there’s too much inequality, the racial divides, the continuing discrimination against the LGBT community so that we will work together.
And yes, finally, fathers will be able to say to their daughters, “You too can grow up to be president.”
Well, actually I have been very consistent over the course of my entire life. I have always fought for the same values and principles.
But like most human beings, including those of us who run for office, I absorb new information. I do look at what’s happening in the world.
You know, take the trade deal. I did say when I was Secretary of State three years ago that I hoped it would be the gold standard. It was just finally negotiated last week. And in looking at it, it didn’t meet my standard. My standards for more new good jobs for Americans, for raising wages for Americans.
And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle class American and say “This will help raise your wages” and I concluded I could not.
I think that like most people that I know I have a range of views but they are rooted in my values and my experience.
And I don’t take a backseat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and progressive commitment.
You know, when I left law school, my first job was with the Children’s Defense Fund. And for all the years since, I have been focused on how we’re going to unstack the deck and how we’re going to make it possible for more people to have the experience that I have – you know, to be able to come from grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person, and now asking the people of America to elect me president.
I’m a progressive but I’m a progressive who likes to get things done. And I know how to find common ground and I know how to stand my ground. And I have proved that in every position that I’ve had even dealing with Republicans who never had a good word to say about me, honestly. But we found ways to work together on everything from reforming foster care and adoption to the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which insures 8 million kids. So I have a long history of getting things done rooted in the same values I’ve always had.
…When I think about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and freedom in our country for people to do that and make a good living for themselves and their families.
And I don’t think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is save capitalism from itself.
And I think what Sen. Sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have.
But we are not Denmark. I love Denmark. We’re the United States of America and it’s our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so it doesn’t run amok and doesn’t cause the kind of inequities that we’re seeing in our economic system.
But we would be making a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history of the world.
No. Not at all.
I think that we have to look at the fact that we lose 90 people a day from gun violence. This has gone on too long and it’s time the entire country stood up against the NRA.
The majority of our country supports background checks and even the majority of gun owners do.
Sen. Sanders did vote five times against the Brady Bill. Since it was passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented.
He also did vote, as he said, for this immunity provision. I voted against it. I was in the Senate at the same time. It wasn’t that complicated to me. It was pretty straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in America. Everybody else has to be accountable but not the gun manufacturers. And we need to stand up and say “Enough of that. We’re not going to let it continue.”
Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians when [Dimitry] Medvedev was the President and not Putin.
We got a nuclear arms deal. We got the Iranian sanctions. We got an ability to bring important material and equipments to our soldiers in Afghanistan.
There’s no doubt that when Putin came back in and said he was going to be President, that did change the relationship.
We have to stand up to this bullying – and specifically in Syria it is important – and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now with the Russians – to make it clear that they’ve got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict and to provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are.
And I think it’s important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that it’s not acceptable for him to be in Syria, creating more chaos, bombing people on behalf of Assad. And we can’t do that if we don’t take more of a leadership position, which is what I’m advocating.
Well, let’s remember what was going on. We had a murderous dictator – Gaddafi – who had American blood on his hands, as I’m sure you remember, threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people.
We had our closest allies in Europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw as a mass genocide in their words.
And we had the Arabs standing by our side, saying “We want you to help us deal with Gaddafi.”
Our response, which I think was smart power at its best, is the United States will not lead this; we will provide essential unique capabilities that we have. But the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line.
We did not put one single American soldier on the ground in Libya.
And I’ll say this to the Libyan people –
I’ll get to that. But I think it’s important since I understand Sen. Webb’s very strong feelings about this to explain where we were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision at the time.
And the Libyan people had a free election – the first time since 1951. And you know what? They voted for moderates. They voted with the hope of democracy because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things. There was turmoil to be followed.
But unless you believe the United States should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send them forth there is always the potential for danger and risks.
Well, I’ve taken responsibility for it. I did say it was a mistake.
What I did was allowed by the State Department but it wasn’t the best choice.
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my emails, asking that they made public.
And you’re right. I am going to be testifying. I’ve been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public, which was not originally agreed to.
But let’s just take a minute here and point out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National Committee. It is a partisan vehicle as admitted by the House Republican Majority Leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers. Big surprise. And that’s what they have attempted to do.
I am still standing. I am happy to be part of this debate. And I intend to keep talking about the issues that matter to the American people.
You know, I believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about – like how we’re going to make college affordable, how we’re going to pay down student debt, how we’re going to get health care for everybody and the costs of prescription drugs down.
Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on these issues and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the Republicans at every turn.
So what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice. I have talked about that at some length, including things like body cameras. But we also need to be following the recommendations of the commission that President Obama empaneled on policing. There is an agenda there that we need to be following up on.
Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration. And this may be the only bipartisan issue in the Congress this year.
We actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion that we cannot keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world.
But I believe that the debate and the discussion has to go further…because we’ve got to more about the lives of these children. That’s why I started off by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her God-given potential. That is really hard to do if you don’t have early childhood education, if you don’t have schools that are able to meet the needs of the people or good housing. There’s a long list. We need a new New Deal for communities of color.
Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed. Neither of us came from wealthy families and we worked really hard our entire lives.
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs.
I have a five-point economic plan because this inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points.
It’s absolutely right. It hasn’t been this bad since the 1920s.
But if you look at the Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no comparison. The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House and that’s why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017.
Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two. We’ve been around a cumulative quite some period of time.
You know, we know that if you are learning, you’re going to change your position.
I never took a position on Keystone until I took a position on Keystone.
But I have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed a meeting with the Chinese and got them to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that they’ve ever joined.
So I’m not taking a backseat to anybody on my values, my principles, and the results that I get.
Well, let me address college affordability because I have a plan that I think will really zero on what the problems are.
First, all the 40 million Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate. That will save thousands of dollars for people who are not struggling under this cumbersome, burdensome college debt.
As a young student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it.
So then we have to make it more affordable. How do we make it more affordable?
My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free. You would not have to borrow money for tuition.
But I do believe – and maybe it’s because I worked when I went through college, I worked when I went through law school – I think it’s important for everybody to have some part of getting this accomplished. That’s why I called it a compact.
So yes, I would like students to work 10 hours in order to make it possible for them to afford their education and I want colleges to get their costs down. They’re outrageously high in what they’re charging.
Well, I fully support Social Security and the most important fight we’re going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to privatize it. [overlapping audio]
I want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social Security. We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and single women who didn’t make a lot of money during their careers. And they are impoverished and they need more help from the Social Security system.
And I will focus on helping those people who need it the most. And of course, I’m going to defend Social Security; I’m going to look for ways to try to make sure it’s solvent into the future.
And we also need to talk about health care at some time. [overlapping audio]
We agree on the goals; we just disagree on the means.
Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care. That’s why I helped to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and I want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented children and others.
I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able to buy into the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act.
I think to go beyond that, as I understand what Gov. O’Malley has recommended so that they would get the same subsidies, I think that is – it raises so many issues. It would be very difficult to administer. It needs to be part of comprehensive immigration reform when we finally do get to it.
My plan would support any state that takes that position and would work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing.
No, I don’t [regret the vote]. I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed. And it is true that it did require that there be a process.
What happened, however, is that the Bush administration began to chip away at that process, and I began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in.
We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and security. It’s not easy in a democracy. But we have to keep it in mind.
And I know what it takes to get things done. I know how to find common ground and I know how to stand my ground. And I think we need both of those in Washington to get anything that we’re talking about up here accomplished.
So I’m very happy that I have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a lifetime to bring together to offer the American people.
Well, that’s exactly what I’ve been doing.
When we met in Copenhagen in 2009 and literally President Obama and I were hunting for the Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center because we knew we had to get them to agree to something. Because there will be no effective efforts against climate unless China and India join with the rest of the world.
They told us they left for the airport. We found out they were having a secret meeting. We marched up. We broke in. We said, “We’ve been looking all over for you. Let’s sit down and talk about what we need to do.”
And we did come up with the first international agreement that China has signed. Thanks to President Obama’s leadership, it’s now gone much further, and I do think that the bilateral agreement that President Obama made with the Chinese was significant.
Now, it needs to go further and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered there.
Well, I’m surprised she says that because California’s had a paid leave program for a number of years – [overlapping audio]
On a state level – a state as big as many countries in the world – and it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans are always saying it will have.
And I think this is typical Republican scare tactics.
We can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses.
I remember as a young mother, you know, having a baby wake up who was sick and I’m supposed to be in court because I was practicing law. I know what it’s like.
And I think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face particularly working moms.
I see my good friend, Sen. [Kirsten] Gillibrand in the front role. She’s been a champion of this.
We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I’m talking about it everywhere I go and we need to join the rest of the advanced world in having it.
No. I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today.
I do support the use of medical marijuana and I think even there we need to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how we’re going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides relief.
So I think we’re just at the beginning but I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who use marijuana. Therefore we need more states, cities, and the federal government to begin to address this so that we don’t have this terrible result that Sen. Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our prisons for non-violent low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana.
…I think what you did see is that in this debate we tried to deal with some of the very tough issues facing our country. That’s in stark contrast to the Republicans who are currently running for president.
What you have to ask yourself is who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that are going to improve the lives of the American people? Who has the tenacity and the ability and the proven track record of getting that done?
Now, I revere my late mother and she gave me a lot of good advice. But one of the best pieces of advice she gave me was, “You know, the issue is not whether or not you get knocked down; it’s whether you get back up.”
America’s been knocked down. That Great Recession – 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, $13 trillion in wealth disappeared.
And although we’ve made progress, we’re standing but not running the way America needs to.
My mission as President will be to raise incomes for hardworking middle class families and to make sure that we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with – if you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
Please join me in this campaign. Please come and make it clear that America’s best days are still ahead.
Thank you very much.
…I know as you said this was not easy to do but thank you.
I want more people to hear stories like so that this is not just some political debate about something happening far away but people can really begin to think about standing in the shoes of those who have been victims of gun violence and trying to understand what we can all do together.
You know, Clay [sp] survived this brutal hateful attack in her own home. 90 people a day don’t survive because of guns. 33,000 people a year die by homicide, suicide or by accidents using firearms.
And I think we’re better than that as a nation. And I think we can do something about that. And that’s why I have been talking about it, have been laying out my policies toward it.
Some people say that we shouldn’t talk about it. Some say we shouldn’t shout about it. That I shouldn’t shout about it.
Well, I think we keep talking but more importantly we have to act. And we have to be willing to take on those who are not in favor of sensible gun safety measures. That includes the NRA and it includes a lot of people in public life who are intimidated.
I think that’s no longer feasible. It’s no longer right.
So what I have said is “Yes, as President, I will push and achieve universal background check” – something that the majority of Americans support and the majority of gun owners support. Sensible, responsible gun owners support it.
You know, the Brady Bill has kept 2 million guns from being sold into the wrong hands. Because of that background check, despite its loopholes, prohibited purchasers because they were felons, fugitives, stalkers, domestic abusers, people with serious illness have been stopped from buying a gun.
So as bad as the gun carnage is, I’d like to think that at least 2 million prohibited purchasers weren’t part of that.
I also think it’s critically important to close those loopholes, to close the gun show loophole and the online loophole.
You know, back when the Brady Bill was passed in ’94 online purchases were not an issue; we now know they are.
So we have to go for universal background checks and we have to close those two loopholes.
And I have said that if the Congress doesn’t cooperate, I would use executive action to make sure that sellers are held accountable.
I also believe we should close what is now being called the “Charleston loophole”.
Under the background checks if someone applies to buy a gun, the seller has three days – those sellers that are covered – to conduct a background check. And if it is not completed by the end of three days, the purchaser gets to buy the gun anyway.
Now, the reason it’s called the Charleston loophole is that the killer of those nine people at Bible Study in Mother Emanuel Church in Charleston got his gun not because he was eligible, because in fact it was learned shortly after he was not eligible; he had a felony record. But because of this loophole, he was able to go back at the end of three days and buy the gun he used to kill those nine innocent people.
And then finally, we have to repeal the broad immunity that has been given to gun manufacturers and sellers in America, which has shielded them from any responsibility for their sale of guns and ammunition or their manufacture of either.
Now, just recently, there was some small glimmer of hope when a jury in Wisconsin found a seller of guns liable because of a straw purchase, which the seller clearly knew to be a straw purchase. A straw purchase is you’re not eligible, you’re a felon, you’ve got a domestic abuse order against you, you’ve been committed. Remember, the shooter at Virginia Tech had been committed for outpatient treatment for mental health; still got a gun. But in this particular case in Wisconsin, the prohibited purchaser sent somebody else in with a clean record to buy the gun for him. There’s video and other evidence that the seller knew that the gun was for somebody else. Sold it anyway. So the seller [sic] buys it, turns it over to the real purchaser, who goes out and shoots two police officers, injuring both seriously.
And so when the police officers sued the gun seller, the jury heard the evidence and came in with a verdict in favor of the police officers.
Now, we’re going to see whether or not that verdict stands up under this broad immunity that has been given to the industry.
There’s really no other industry in America that has this kind of blanket permission to be reckless, to be negligent, to sell defective products even.
It’s just outrageous, and we have to repeal that so that those who manufacture guns and sell them are held to some standard of accountability.
So I’m going to do everything I can in this campaign to not only talk about this issue and to give the platform to people like Clay, who can be much more eloquent than I ever can about why this is an important issue.
But I’m also appealing to responsible gun owners: Organize an alternative to the NRA, which is nothing but a lobby for the most absolutist positions that the gun manufacturers and sellers demand.
We have so many responsible gun owners.
I’m not against guns. My dad taught me to shoot when I was a little girl. I’ve even gone duck hunting in Arkansas – standing in the cold water at sunrise. Once was enough getting up that early to stand in that cold water, I could tell you that much.
So this is not about the kind of scare tactics that you will hear from the NRA. You know, this is what they do. They just scare responsible folks into thinking that you know the black helicopter is going to land in the front yard and somebody is going to show up and take your guns. That is nonsense, and it needs to be called out for what it is.
But the fight against the NRA should be led by a new organization of gun owners.
I’m collecting names of people who are stepping up and writing about their feelings as people who enjoy hunting, enjoy target shooting, enjoy collecting but who are sick and tired of the violence, people who are killed and injured.
So I am very grateful to my good friend, your Senator Molly Kelly, and I am very grateful to Clay for sharing what is a very painful personal story to try to save lives.
And I really look forward to working with a groundswell of people across our country who know we can do better than this. We are better than this.
So with that, let me throw this open to questions on whatever issues or concerns you might have…
Question on the NSA and Edward Snowden:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, let me say this. I firmly believe that he could have gone public and released the information about the collection of information on Americans under whistleblower protection, and he could have done it within the tradition in our country that shields people who come forth acting out of conscience to present information that they believe the public should have.
I do not know why in addition to releasing the information that you’re referring to, he felt compelled to steal a lot of information that by any definition had nothing to do with Americans’ civil rights, liberties, and privacy, but instead were about terrorists and what other nations – just to name two, China and Russia – do to try to gather information about us and what our government tries to do to prevent that and to try to get information about them.
So if he’d been a whistleblower and if he had confined himself to releasing information that I think did provoke the right kind of discussion in our country and has led to some changes, which I approve of, then I think people could across all spectrum say “Hey, thank you for bringing this to our attention and thank you for giving us the opportunity to respond.”
Because he took valuable information and went first to China and then is now under the protection of Vladimir Putin, I think that raises a lot of questions about everything else he did.
So I do not think he should escape having to return and answer for what he has done.
And I think we need to continue the balance on civil liberties, privacy and security. It’s always a challenge. And I do support what the Congress passed – the USA Freedom Act – because it did have some good changes and I think we have to remain vigilant.
But it’s always a balance. It’s a balance. It’s not just all one-sided. You know, if you go too far toward security, you do infringe upon the legitimate rights of Americans and that’s what we’re trying to end. If you go too far toward privacy and you know civil liberties, you can leave us vulnerable, and we’re trying to prevent that too.
So that’s the kind of hard choice balancing act that I think President Obama has been attempting to do and I support the changes that he has been making from the executive level and I support the new legislation that the Congress passed.
Question on the need for a culture of gun safety:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I agree with you on that. And I like to refer to what I’m advocating as gun safety measures.
And the gentleman makes a very good point. You know, like so many of you, I’m reading news online and I see a headline – I think it was in the Washington Post – which said something as I recall “Toddlers are killing more people with guns”. And I stopped. I went, “What? Why?”
Because the people whose homes they live in – mostly their parents, sometimes their grandparents – have loaded guns in their homes, in their cars, and children are curious and they’re picking up loaded guns.
And I read this story after I was shocked by the headline – the toddler in the backseat where there was also a loaded gun picking it and looking at it and shooting his grandmother.
It’s just beyond my comprehension.
And the gentleman is absolutely right. If you are going to have a gun, please, please exercise common sense safety and keep those guns away from children, toddlers, young kids, and teach a proper respect for guns.
One of the worst cases that I read about in the last two weeks was an 11-year-old boy asked to see the new puppy of the 8-year-old girl who live near him. And the little girl for whatever reason said “No”, she didn’t want him to see her puppy. He went home. He got his father’s loaded shotgun. He went back and he killed her.
So all I’m asking and it’s pretty common sense. We need new legislation to close the loopholes, to remove the immunity from liability, to use technology to get instant background checks for real, not just saying it. But ultimately, people have to exercise common sense in dealing with these weapons and keeping them away from children should be rule number one in my opinion.
Question on shale oil extraction and fracking:
Hillary Clinton:
It’s a great question and it’s one I give the Obama administration a lot of credit over the last two years in particular they have been – yes, let’s give the Obama administration a lot of credit for their energy and climate change policy.
And they’ve been struggling with this and they’ve begun to come out with recommended regulations. Like for example to control methane emissions.
I think you also have to have very tough water standards.
And I think from talking to experts in the Obama administration and on the outside, here is what they have convinced me of and this is the following.
There are some places in our country where this extraction technique may be appropriate if we do more research and we figure out how to cut the methane emissions and keep the water clean. There are a lot of other places where it is not.
And part of what the federal government needs to start doing is drawing some lines and informing states and localities.
And we should also never preempt states and localities from saying no. If a local government says no, not here, they should be able to do that.
And part of the reason why I think the Obama administration experts have taken this position is we have to go through a transition. We have to move away from fossil fuels including gas but that gas can be a useful bridge, especially as we move away from coal and we move away from dirtier oil and some of the really bad alternatives.
And we want to keep more fossil fuels under the ocean and in the ground. That’s why I’m agains Arctic drilling and why I’m against offshore drilling because I don’t think we should start that.
So, I’m trying to listen to people who I know care a lot about the environment, care a lot about climate change, and are trying to figure out what are the smart steps we can take.
So in some instances, I can go along with it, and in lots of others, I can’t. And we need to be moving as quickly as possible to 100% clean, renewable energy. We have a long way to go. But that should be our goal. And we should do nothing that interferes with it or undermines our efforts to reach that goal as soon as it is possible.
Hillary Clinton:
…I didn’t really focus on this until I’ve been traveling around New Hampshire and the concerns that residents have expressed about FERC really are legitimate because the process that FERC is employing does not give enough weight to public opinion in the locations where the pipelines are going through.
It does not pay in my opinion enough attention to all of the other issues, whether they be health issues, safety issues and the like.
So I am going to do what I can to try to make it absolutely the case that FERC has to – in any of these decisions – pay much more attention to local communities and listen to what your concerns are and do much more to evaluate whatever the consequences or the downsides of these decisions are.
Because right now their mandate seems to be only about delivery of energy at anywhere, anytime. And I don’t think that’s adequate in today’s world.
If we’re going to have a climate – [inaudible] – let’s not confuse the two issues. When you say supported, they’re not paid for by oil and gas. They are certainly as a regulator for oil and gas used to paying attention to what oil and gas industry says. I will absolutely give you that.
See, my problem though now that people…have raised this with me is that if we’re going to have a national commitment to do something about climate change, FERC needs to be part of that national commitment. And that’s my view on how we have to alter a lot of parts of the federal government.
You know, it’s not just the EPA that needs to be focused on combatting climate change. Every part of the federal government needs to be focused. Because I want to have a national goal.
And I’ve said I want to have by the end of my first term a half a billion more solar panels installed. And by the end of my second term, enough clean renewable energy to power every home in America.
And if those are our goals, then it’s really important that we don’t have the right hand doing something different than the left hand, in the old saying.
So it would be my intention to if legislative changes, regulatory changes are necessary to undertake those but also to appoint people who will be really focused on how everybody works toward this big overarching national goal and not kind of have old-think.
You know, there was a time when we needed more energy. People remember – some of us are able to remember being in very long gas lines. At least, I remember those days. And we were pretty much captive to Middle East oil. So we had a different mindset.
But now we’ve got to change that. So I think your question is not only a specific one about a particular decision but it raises a larger issue about what we’re going to do to change our values, our goals, and that’s what I’m going to try to do.
Question on student debt:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, let me ask how many people in this room currently have student debt? Wow… How many have ever had student debt? That’s a pretty healthy majority here.
That’s a great question, and your statistics are right. We have 40 million people with student debt that now reaches $1.2 trillion.
So, the first and most important thing is we need to make it possible for every person with student debt – current and those who have graduated – refinance that debt. You know, that to me is the number one goal.
And if you think about it, everyone else can refinance their debt. Corporations can refinance their debt. You can refinance your mortgage. You can refinance your car payment. Why is it students can’t refinance their debt?
And the worst injustice to me is that we’ve had practically zero interest rates for seven years.
And yet, I want to ask how many of you know that you are paying an interest rate of at least 7%? Yeah. I mean, we have people who are paying interest rates far beyond what the real interest rates are. So I want everybody to be able to refinance.
And then I want to do much more to get both students and graduates into income contingency repayment plans. What is that?
Well, this is what I had when I went to law school. So did my husband. You know, we both borrowed money. We worked. We borrowed money. And in the loans we had, when we graduated we both were teachers. We taught at the University of Arkansas Law School. My first job was with the Children’s Defense Fund and then with the University of Arkansas. As I recall, making like $14,000 – between $14,000 and $17,000 a year.
And we couldn’t have paid some big fixed rate based on a high interest rate. So we paid back as a percentage of our income on a monthly basis, and as I recall it was 10% and it took – I don’t know – 15 years. But it didn’t have the burden that I now hear about from so many young people and their families because of the high fixed rates.
And the other thing I really like to do more of is to make sure that people who go into what our public service, national service jobs get a lower rate, get more forgiveness faster, get a discount because they are doing something that serves their community.
And then to have a date certain when your obligations end. If you’ve been a responsible payer and you’ve taken advantage of all the new opportunities that I want to provide, there will be an end point and you can count on that.
So this is a big deal to me because too many people are being held back because of this debt and you say $32,000 – I think that’s one of the highest averages in the country students in New Hampshire are bearing. So it’s a big problem for everybody but particularly students here.
And I’ve met a lot of them who because of their student debt can’t take jobs they’d like to take because they can’t afford them.
I met a young woman who said she had a dream job of her life in Boston but she couldn’t afford to pay her student debt and live there so like so many young people today she’s still living with her parents. And that’s nice but you know you deserve a chance to get out there and make your own decisions about where you’re going to live and where you’re going to work and all the rest of it.
So that’s what I want to do and I will make that a very high priority.
Questions on human trafficking and empowering youth of America:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, with respect to your first question on human trafficking, I feel passionately about this and have worked on this issue since my days as First Lady.
In fact, back in 2000, I worked with a coalition of outside activists and members of Congress to pass the first ever United States legislation against human trafficking. Proud to say my husband signed it so that began our efforts on human trafficking.
And I stayed focused on that as Senator and then as Secretary of State worked really hard to do more about human trafficking around the world and still here at home.
We appointed a first rate federal prosecutor who had prosecuted some of the human trafficking cases in the United States to head the office in the State Department to take on these issues.
And we also pressured through the human trafficking annual study different countries to have to change their laws, to enforce their laws.
When I as First Lady talked to representatives of other countries, they really didn’t understand why the United States was making a big deal out of this because it was part of in their view the culture. Now, they know they’re going to be graded every year by the United States government and that if they are having a failing grade several years in a row, they can lose aid and benefits from the United States government. And it’s our tool to try to get laws passed, to change enforcement, and actually to go after human trafficking.
It remains one of the biggest sources of criminal activity and profits in the world.
Sometimes we think of only one or two kinds of human trafficking. You know, the refugees flooding into Europe are in many respects a form of human trafficking. They’re picked up by smugglers who often abandon them. The children and adults who come across our southern border are often treated the same way. You know, their families paid money to smugglers and traffickers who again may abandon them, may abandon them in the desert, may abandon to their fate on the long journey that they are taking.
We have a lot of trafficking of people into really exploitative labor situations. Literally, people being kidnapped and put on fishing boats, being chained to sewing machines and factories.
And then of course, we have sex trafficking where young women in particular but even children are preyed upon and where poor families are convinced to essentially sell their daughters.
I remember being in northern Thailand when I was First Lady and it was before we passed our trafficking statute and part of the reason I was there was to talk with the government to convince them to take this seriously. And I went to a hospice for young women who were the victims of AIDS after having been trafficked into the brothels in Bangkok and then when they were ill thrown literally on the street. Some of them would make their way back to their homes; their families who’ve been paid for them would reject them. And I remember standing by the wheelchair of a dying 12-year-old girl and having the aid workers who were taking care of her tell me her story and then the aid worker says, “You can tell the families that have sold their daughters by driving around these villages – the huts, the houses with satellites have sold their daughters.”
And so this is such a deep part of discrimination against women and girls, a rejection of their importance, their human dignity, their rights, that it is a deep challenge to change attitudes in many parts of the world about the value of girls and to make the case that educating a girl over the long run will be far better for the family than selling her at the age of 11 or 12 to be either an indentured servant or a sex worker.
So this is an area that is particularly a concern of mine because it goes hand-in-hand with the exploitation of poor people, marginalized people, and particularly girls and women in many places across the country.
Thank you.
Question on whether the United States should follow the example of Australia’s buyback of handguns:
Hillary Clinton:
You know, Australia is a good example. Canada is a good example. The UK is a good example.
Why? Because of them had mass killings.
Australia had a huge mass killing about 20, 25 years ago. Canada did as well. So did the UK.
And in reaction, they passed much stricter gun laws.
In the Australian example, as I recall, that was a buyback program. The Australian government as part of trying to clamp down on the availability of automatic weapons offered a good price for buying hundreds of thousands of guns and then they basically clamped down going forward in terms of having more of a background check approach, more of a permitting approach. But they believed – and I think the evidence supports them – that by offering to buy back those guns they were able to curtail the supply and to set a different standard for gun purchases in the future.
Now, communities have done that in our country. Several communities have done gun buyback programs. But I think it would be worth considering doing it on the national level if that could be arranged.
Remember, I know after the terrible ’08 financial crisis, I think one of the programs that President Obama was able to get in place was cash for clunkers. Remember that? You know, getting them off the road. It was partly a way to get people to buy new cars because we wanted a more economic activity, and it was partly a way to get old models that were polluting too much off the road.
So I think that’s worth considering.
I don’t know enough details to tell you how we would do it or how it would work. But certainly the Australian example is worth looking at. Thank you for raising that.
Question on education reform:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I’m glad you’re going to be a teacher.
And I have say Keene State has a well-deserved reputation for turning out educators. And I want to really applaud Keene State faculty and students.
Well, I could talk about this a long time but I’ll try to be more focused.
First of all, I think we have to do more to actually pay attention to what educators tell us about what will work in the classroom.
And that sounds so obvious that some of you are probably wondering “Why would you say something so obvious?”
Well, because we’ve been having a very vigorous debate, a contentious debate, over what will work and what won’t work to try to increase educational achievement among our young people.
And I think the debate has gotten off base. I think it’s too much about the latest fads, the latest products, the latest models, instead of taking a deep breadth and actually talking to experts who have done an enormous amount of research about what really works. I want to get back to looking at what really works.
And I know that there are a lot of well-meaning people who are really down on the public schools, and I just don’t believe or share that. I think that public schools are one of the bedrock institutions of our democracy and therefore we need to do more to make them work.
And so here are a couple of observations because this is a much longer conversation. And I must say I am honored to have the support of the teachers of New Hampshire and America in my campaign and because of that I want to be a partner in figuring out what are the best ways forward to do a better job helping kids, particularly poor kids, particularly kids with special needs, particularly kids who come into school from literally the first day of kindergarten not as prepared as their classmates are to be successful.
So I start with early childhood education and universal pre-kindergarten. That’s where I start.
And I think it’s a grave disservice to ignore the fact that the first five years of life set up a child, set up the vocabulary of that child. We now know from brain research even influences the brain in ways that will make it easier or less so in learning.
The brain research tells us that 80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of 3. So what happens in those three years and then those first 5 years before you even go to a formal classroom really depends on the family and the community and what kinds of support families can be given.
I am a strong believer in early education, particularly for kids that have various kinds of disadvantages.
And I’ll just tell you a quick story. When Bill was governor of Arkansas, one of our problems, it was you know the second poorest state in America. And our teachers were the second poorest paid in America. And a lot of our families had really serious economic challenges.
And so when you’re thinking about “Okay, what do you do to try to improve the schools?” We tackled standards. We raised teacher pay. We did a lot that needed to be done that was overdue.
But we also looked at this problem about what happens when kids show up that first day. And as a result, I began looking all over to try to find an affordable program that could help more low-income kids be better prepared. Because a lot of the programs that are the real state of the art are expensive. Now, I would love for our country invest in them because you actually save money at the end of it. That’s been proven over and over again.
But being realistic we’ve got to find everything we can do and try to make it affordable.
So this was so serendipitous. I was in Florida with Bill. We were attending some meeting he had and I was just literally in the hotel room flipping through the paper and I saw a picture of a professor from Israel who was giving a lecture about a program that he had started there. And I read about it and it was fascinating because it basically said that after a big influx of immigrants from poor nations like Ethiopia, the kids would go to the excellent Israeli schools but they weren’t achieving. And so the Israeli researchers at Hebrew University were saying “Wait. What’s going on here? They’re in the schools. If the schools were the only answer, why aren’t they doing better?” And then they realized they had to work in the family in those first five years.
So I called this woman…and I asked her if she were coming to the United States because I would like to meet with her to figure out whether what they did in Israel was transferrable to a place like Arkansas. She came.
And we began what’s called the Home Instruction Program for Pre-School Youngsters. And basically the idea behind it was to help the mother become the child’s first teacher, to feel confident and competent enough to try to prepare her own child to learn, doing very simple things like talking to her baby.
A lot of low-income mothers, when I started doing this back in the ‘80s, I said, “I bet you’re loving talking to your baby.” And they’d say, “Well, why would I talk to her? She can’t talk back.” Not because she didn’t love her baby but because she had no idea that’s how you build brain cells and synapses and vocabulary.
So fast forward. This program has now been going on across the country for 25 years and it has a great track record.
So we can do more in the homes helping parents be their child’s first teachers. But we still need universal pre-kindergarten so that every child can get that level of preparation so that when they go to that first day of kindergarten they have a fighting chance to be successful.
So there’s a lot I want to do. But I’ll end there by saying that I am really looking forward to working with the teachers and parents of America to make our education system everything it should be.
Question on substance abuse epidemic:
Hillary Clinton:
…You are the third grandmother that I have personally met in New Hampshire in the last several months who’s raising a grandchild because of drugs.
We did have an incredible town hall here…600, 700 people, most of them really affected in some way or another by this terrible epidemic of addiction and in particular here in New Hampshire and next door in Vermont, heroin. And the heroin epidemic, which is killing so many young people, and leaving grieving and broken families behind.
I don’t think I would have been talking about this issue had I not spent several months listening to people.
And in Iowa on my first trip in this campaign and then in New Hampshire in Keene on my first trip…I heard about the heroin epidemic and so I began looking into it and I know that everywhere I went somebody raised it with me – sometimes publicly, sometimes afterwards privately.
So that’s why I have a comprehensive agenda to try to begin to reverse this tide of addiction.
It includes better preventive efforts. It includes more treatment, something that we just don’t have enough of. If you do have somebody and you persuade them to seek treatment only 1 in 10 will get it in a timely way because we don’t have enough of it.
We also are seeing real progress. In Laconia, I had a meeting about this issue and I was so impressed by the police chief who has changed the whole way he polices drug abuse and drug offenses. Instead of sending people to jail, they’re trying to get people into treatment. They’re trying to match them with some kind of mentor from the recovery community. And they’re now equipped with the antidote to reverse heroin overdoses – naloxone – known as Narcan.
So we have to change the way we police. We need far more drug courts. Drug courts are so much more cost-effective than prison. We send a lot of people to prison for minor drug offenses. They come out full-blown addicts.
We just are going at this I think backwards.
So I am making this an issue because I really believe it’s a public health issue. As I talked about two weeks ago up in Boston with the Attorney General and the Mayor – Mayor Walsh is a recovering alcoholic and very willing to talk about it because he knows that if someone like him in that kind of position doesn’t talk about it then how will people know that there is something people can do, some path forward.
But for me, it’s really about the lives that are affected and all those who are trying to help their loved ones or trying to cope with the fact that they can’t help or that that person is no longer around.
So I appreciate you very much for raising this because we’re going to keep talking about it. We’re going to try to do more about it.
Thank you.
Question on genetically modified crops (GMO):
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I strongly support what the Department of Agriculture is now doing, which is to work toward voluntary labeling as a first step and to have more information for consumers so that on barcodes or labels people can actually know what’s in what they’re buying. I think that has to be the first step.
The second step that I support that the Department of Agriculture is doing is preventing the proponents of GMOs from stopping states from setting higher standards because I believe that in an area as you rightly say we need more research and consumers need better information based on the research we currently have, that it would be a terrible mistake for the industry to be able to use their influence in Congress to stop states from doing exactly as you said looking into it, finding out more about it.
And I want more research too because I think you’re right, there are some forms of this that are lifesavers. You know, drought resistant crops are often genetically modified and we don’t want to deprive people in drought conditions from being able to grow crops that they then can use unless there is evidence, research that show they shouldn’t do it.
But on the other hand, we need an ongoing system of doing much more to check out all the chemicals and genetic changes.
And it’s not just GMO I’m worried about. We have hundreds, if not thousands, of chemicals that we have never tested to determine what their real impact is or in concert with other elements or other chemicals.
So I’m a huge believer in safety and in the right to know, and I think we are not doing enough on either of those counts.
So right now, that’s where I stand on it. I am not in any way pro just forward no questions asked. I think that’s not smart.
But I’m also not anti-no questions asked, there’s no possible use for these kinds of altered crops, which we’ve been eating, as you know, for hundreds of years in different forms. It’s just much more sophisticated now.
But I am very much in favor of making sure it’s labeled, making sure that no state or local community is stopped from doing what it thinks is right and much more money by independent sources in looking at the impacts so we have that better information in the first place.
Question on genocide and mass atrocity prevention:
Hillary Clinton:
…We’ve got to have educated young people and others like you who are equipped to help us deal with a lot of these issues because unfortunately we are living with them and we have to come up with a better response.
I was privileged to announce the Atrocities Prevention Board when it was first set up in the Obama administration. And I did it at the Holocaust Museum in Washington. If any of you have been there, it was the most appropriate perfect place to make that announcement.
And I will certainly not only continue it but look for ways its visibility can become higher so that more people know that the United States has this board and that we will work to find ways to try to bring people together around some common responses to the potential for genocide, learning from the past.
And there are so many both kind of theoretical and practical aspects to this that deserve a lot of thought.
For example, we know that oftentimes in conflicts ethnic religious, tribal, other leaders of groups actually set these genocides or ethnic cleansing in motion.
They use the media. We saw that in Bosnia where people who had lived together peacefully for a very long time were set against each other through a propaganda effort on the media that turned neighbor against neighbor and even split families.
So we have to understand quickly if something like that is happening what are the best ways to try to combat it.
We saw the same things in Rwanda. We have seen the same thing in the Central African Republic between Christians and Muslims and their political battles.
So we have to not only condemn this and speak out against the horrible effects of the Holocaust, of genocide, of atrocities, but we have to really analyze it. And that’s why I’m so proud of the course you’re doing. Like, what triggers it? What turns people against one another who have been maybe not loving each other but not killing each other and then all of a sudden something sets them off. And how do we try to have interventions that prevent that?
And a lot of culture are on a tripwire – something can set them off. So how do we help other countries with the huge variety of cultures in the world understand what they need to do to try to prevent it from escalating.
So I’m delighted and I hope that those who are in this program and graduate from it will find ways in our government, ways in our international organization, in not-for-profits to be really actively involved in helping us understand what to do to prevent this from happening in the future.
Question on Glass-Steagall and protecting Americans from abuses of Wall Street:
Hillary Clinton:
…My plan is more comprehensive, more effective, and in fact tougher.
And take a look at Paul Krugman’s column today. Paul Krugman, who I think has pretty amazing progressive credentials, basically said I had the better side of this argument.
Now, why did he say this? Because I fully respect my colleagues who have said let’s reinstate Glass-Steagall. And if I thought that alone would prevent the potential next crisis, I’d raise my hand and join. But that’s not my assessment.
Because if you look, as Krugman said today in his column, some of the major actors who caused the ’08 crash were not big banks. They would have never been covered by Glass-Steagall.
AIG, the giant insurance company. Lehman Brothers. They would never have been affected by it.
And what I want to do is to crack down on the banks by assessing a risk fee and forcing them to have to comply with Dodd-Frank and tougher regulations.
And I am absolutely in favor of breaking them up if they become a risk to the economy.
But the potential next threat to our economy that has to be really reined in is what’s called the shadow banking world – the hedge funds, the money market funds. Glass-Steagall wouldn’t do anything about that if it were reinstated tomorrow.
So I have the greatest respect for my colleagues and former colleagues who are really focused on that. But I go further than that.
My proposal, which you can go to my website and read about, goes much further and includes everybody that I think would pose a risk to the economy, including the big banks but going much further than that. And that’s why I take the position I have. And you can read Paul Krugman today to understand why.
Question on Clinton’s evolving view on LGBT:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I think that if you speak with the Human Rights Campaign or any of the large advocacy groups, they will tell you that they count on me and that you can count on me.
I think I was the first and only First Lady to marched in a gay pride parade back in the 1990s. So I have been an advocate – a vocal, visible advocate – for equality and against discrimination.
Yes, my views did evolve and I think most people my age would say the same thing. There might be some exceptions but largely because of my strong opposition to discrimination of any sort and my personal relationships with a lot of people over the years, I certainly concluded that marriage equality should be the law of the land and I was thrilled when the Supreme Court made it the law of the land.
And I will enforce marriage equality. But we’ve got to go further than that.
You know, in a lot of states now because of the constitutional decision, you can get married on Saturday and get fired on Monday because we still permit discrimination in employment and in public accommodations.
So we have to pass the Equality Act, which is currently pending in Congress. That will be my highest priority. So that marriage isn’t the end of the debate; it’s a step along the path to true equality. And you will be able to count on me to fight for you.
Question on nursing shortage:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, first of all, thanks for being a nurse. And I think people know or should know that nursing care is often the single biggest reason people either get well and recover or not. So the nurse is at the center of the health care system in many ways.
So, a couple of things about this. One, the last time I looked, most nursing programs were over-subscribed by people wanting to get into them. There were far more applicants than there were places for them.
So I think we should be expanding our training programs, our educational programs so that we can actually train more nurses so we can get ahead of what is a very serious problem with the retirement of a lot of baby boom nurses and the fact that we’re just not going to have enough of a supply if we don’t start trying to fill the pipeline now.
So there are some excellent programs. But we’re going to have to open additional excellent programs and we’re going to have to try to support and I would be in favor of federal support for programs that have a proven track record of turning out excellent nurses so that they can expand. More faculty, more slots. So that they can add to the numbers who can get into the profession early.
I also think it’s important that nurses be given more authority in the medical settings in which they work. We know that a lot of nurses are being overworked. They’re being asked to serve very long shifts, and a lot of them now because the numbers have shrunk in a lot of settings, particularly hospital settings, and I think nursing home settings as well. Nurses are responsible for many more patients. And the nurses with whom I have spoken have all said this is unsustainable.
Because if you’ve ever shadowed a nurse, which I did back in 2007, it’s exhausting. You know, in and out of patients’ rooms. I was in a hospital. Stopping to do the checking with doctors. Filling out the forms. You know, by the end of the shift you’re just drained. And if you’re trying to take care of too many patients, the result can be unfortunate because we’re not setting up our systems to get the best possible care.
So I think on both ends – more training, more education, more support for those programs – and trying to make sure the nurses on the job have the support and the authority that they need. That’s how I would try to approach this.
Question on federal student loan:
Hillary Clinton:
Yeah, I can’t stand that. I think that’s terrible. And so we are going to change that. I think that FASA application is absurd. I mean, it is just absolutely absurd.
So I think, you know, we’ve had a kind of perfect storm. The application turns people off and it penalizes people like your parents. So it’s a lose-lose no matter where you start from.
The Parents-Plus loans – I don’t know if any of you have them – have become so expensive and way beyond the means of most families to be able to manage.
The federal government should not be making a profit off of student loans. That is my strong belief.
So, we got to fix the whole system and your example is unfortunately all too common. You know, you’re the same person. You know, if families can make a contribution, fine. But it has to be reasonable.
If students can work – I worked so maybe I’m a little biased – 10 hours a week to be able to get debt free tuition, which is my goal. Debt tuition. You never have to borrow money to pay tuition for public college or university like Keene State. So that will cut your costs.
And it’s just generally become so wrong – I had a young woman in Nevada say to me “The hardest part about going to college shouldn’t be figuring out how to pay for it.”
And the amount of stress and anguish and disappointment from young people and their families is just beyond anything it should ever be.
And the other problem which I’ve encountered back and forth in talking to people about this is that a lot of young people who try to start and then something happens and they drop out, they are stuck with the loans and they don’t have anything to show for it because they never got their degree.
And the worst offenders are some – not all, I want to make that very clear – some of the for-profit colleges that are pretty unscrupulous in how they treat students and their parents. And one of the most exploited groups are our veterans who under the new GI Bill have the opportunity to get an education and a lot of these for-profit colleges try to recruit the vets and then they basically take the money under one of the loopholes in the law and don’t produce the results for our vets.
So there are a number of issues here that I’m going to be confronting. And the debt-free tuition would be a big help to you. That’s going to be one of my primary goals to make college more affordable and to get the debt load down and hopefully eliminate it in a more reasonable way than what you’re facing.
Thank you all very much!

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Cummings, members of this committee.
The terrorist attacks at our diplomatic compound and later at the CIA post in Benghazi, Libya on Sept. 11, 2012 took the lives of four brave Americans: Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone Woods.
I’m here to honor the service of those four men, the courage of the Diplomatic Security Agency and the CIA officers who risked their lives that night and the work their colleagues do every single day all over the world.
I knew and admired Chris Stevens. He was one of our nation’s most accomplished diplomats.
Chris’s mother liked to say that he had sand in his shoes because he was always moving, always working, especially in the Middle East that he came to know so well.
When the revolution broke out in Libya, we name Chris as our envoy to the opposition.
There was no easy way to get him into Benghazi to begin gathering information and meeting those Libyans who were rising up against the murderous dictator Gaddafi. But he found a way to get himself there on a Greek cargo ship, just like a 19th century American envoy.
But his work was very much 21st century hard-nosed diplomacy.
It is a testament to the relationships that he built in Libya that on the day following the awareness of his death tens of thousands of Libyans poured into the streets in Benghazi. They held signs reading “Thugs don’t represent Benghazi or Islam”, “Sorry, people of America”, “This is not the behavior of our Islam or our Prophet”, “Chris Stevens – a friend to all Libyans”.
Although I didn’t have the privilege of meeting Sean Smith personally, he was a valued member of our State Department family. An Air Force veteran, he was an information management officer who had served in Pretoria, Baghdad, Montreal, and the Hague.
Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty worked for the CIA. They were killed by mortar fire at the CIA’s outpost in Benghazi, a short distance from the diplomatic compound. They were both former Navy SEALs and trained paramedics with distinguished records of service, including in Iraq and Afghanistan.
As Secretary of State, I had the honor to lead and the responsibility to support nearly 70,000 diplomats and development experts across the globe.
Losing any one of them, as we did in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mexico, Haiti, and Libya, during my tenure was deeply painful for our entire State Department and USAID family and for me personally.
I was the one who asked Chris to go to Libya as our envoy. I was the one who recommended him to be our Ambassador to the President.
After the attacks, I stood next to President Obama as Marines carried his casket and those of the other three Americans off the plane at Andrews Air Force Base.
I took responsibility. And as part of that, before I left office, I launched reforms to better protect our people in the field and helped reduce the chance of another tragedy happening in the future.
What happened in Benghazi has been scrutinized by a non-partisan, hard-hitting Accountability Review Board, seven prior congressional investigations, multiple news organizations, and of course, our law enforcement and intelligence agencies.
So today, I would like to share three observations about how we can learn from this tragedy and move forward as a nation.

First, America must lead in a dangerous world and our diplomats must continue representing us in dangerous places.
The State Department sends people to more than 270 posts in 170 countries around the world.
Chris Stevens understood that diplomats must operate in many places where our soldiers do not, where there are no other boots on the ground and safety is far from guaranteed. In fact, he volunteered for just those assignments.
He also understood we will never prevent every act of terrorism or achieve perfect security and that we inevitably must accept a level of risk to protect our country and advance our interests and values.
And make no mistake, the risks are real.
Terrorists have killed more than 65 American diplomatic personnel since the 1970s and more than 100 contractors and locally-employed staff.
Since 2001, there have been more than 100 attacks on U.S. diplomatic facilities around the world.
But if you ask our most experienced Ambassadors, they’ll tell you they can’t do their jobs for us from bunkers. It would compound the tragedy of Benghazi if Chris Stevens’s death and the deaths of the other three Americans ended up undermining the work to which he and they devoted their lives.
We have learned the hard way when America is absent especially from unstable places, there are consequences. Extremism takes root, aggressors seek to fill the vacuum, and security everywhere is threatened including here at home.
That’s why Chris was in Benghazi. It’s why he had served previously in Syria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Jerusalem during the second Intifada.
Nobody knew the dangers of Libya better. A weak government, extremist groups, rampant instability.
But Chris chose to go to Benghazi because he understood America had to be represented there at that pivotal time.
He knew that eastern Libya was where the revolution had begun and that unrest there could derail the country’s fragile transition to democracy. And if extremists gained a foothold, they would have the chance to destabilize the entire region, including Egypt and Tunisia.
He also knew how urgent it was to ensure that the weapons Gaddafi had left strewn across the country including shoulder fired missiles that could knock an airplane out of the sky did not fall into the wrong hands. The nearest Israeli airport is just a day’s drive from the Libyan border.
Above all, Chris understood that most people in Libya or anywhere reject the extremist argument that violence can ever be a path to dignity or justice. That’s what those thousands of Libyans were saying after they learned of his death.
And he understood there was no substitute for going beyond the embassy walls and doing the hard work of building relationships.
Retreat from the world is not an option. America cannot shrink from our responsibility to lead.
That doesn’t mean we should ever return to the go-it-alone foreign policy of the past – a foreign policy that puts boots on the ground as a first choice rather than a last resort.
Quite the opposite. We need creative, confident leadership that harnesses all of America’s strengths and values – leadership that integrates and balances the tools of diplomacy, development, and defense.
And at the heart of that effort must be dedicated professionals like Chris Stevens and his colleagues who put their lives on the line for a country – our country – because they believed as I do that America is the greatest force for peace and progress the world has ever known.

My second observation is this: We have a responsibility to provide our diplomats with the resources and support they need to do their jobs as safely and effectively as possible.
After previous deadly attacks, leaders from both parties and both branches of government came together to determine what went wrong and how to fix it for the future.
That’s what happened during the Reagan administration.
When Hezbollah attacked our embassy and killed 63 people, including 17 Americans, and then a later attack attacked our Marine barracks and killed so many more, those two attacks in Beirut resulted in the deaths of 258 Americans.
It’s what happened during the Clinton administration when Al Qaeda bombed our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing more than 200 people, wounding more than 2,000 people and killing 12 Americans.
And it’s what happened during the Bush administration after 9/11.
Part of America’s strength is we learn, we adapt, and we get stronger.
After the Benghazi attacks, I asked Ambassador Thomas Pickering, one of our most distinguished and longest serving diplomats along with Admiral Mike Mullen, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff appointed by President George W. Bush, to lead an Accountability Review Board. This is an institution that the Congress set up after the terrible attacks in Beirut.
There have been 18 previous Accountability Review Boards; only two have ever made any of their findings public – the one following the attacks on our embassies in East Africa and the following the attack on Benghazi.
The Accountability Review Board did not pull a single punch. They found systemic problems and management deficiencies in two State Department bureaus.
And the review board recommended 29 specific improvements. I pledged that by the time I left office every one would be on the way to implementation and they were. More Marines were slated for deployment to high threat embassies. Additional Diplomatic Security Agents were being hired and trained. And Secretary Kerry has continued this work.
But there is more to do, and no administration can do it alone. Congress has to be our partner as it has been after previous tragedies.
For example, the Accountability Review Board and subsequent investigations have recommended improved training for our officers before they deploy to the field. But efforts to establish a modern joint training center are being held up by Congress. The men and women who serve our country deserve better.

Finally, there is one more observation I’d like to share.
I traveled to 112 countries as Secretary of State. Every time I did, I felt great pride and honor representing the country that I love.
We need leadership at home to match our leadership abroad. Leadership that puts national security ahead of politics and ideology.
Our nation has a long history on bipartisan cooperation on foreign policy and national security. Not that we always agree – far from it. But we do come together when it counts.
As Secretary of State, I worked with the Republican Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to pass a landmark nuclear arms control treaty with Russia.
I worked with the Republican leader, Sen. Mitch McConnell, to open up Burma now Myanmar to democratic change.
I know it’s possible to find common ground because I have done it.
We should debate on the basis of fact, not fear. We should resist denigrating the patriotism or loyalty of those with whom we disagree.
So I’m here despite all the previous investigations and all the talk about partisan agendas. I’m here to honor those we’ve lost and to do what I can to aid those who serve us still.
My challenge to you, members of this committee, is the same challenge I put to myself: Let’s be worthy of the trust the American people have bestowed upon us. They expect us to lead, to learn the right lessons, to rise above partisanship, and to reach for statesmanship. That’s what I tried to do everyday as Secretary of State, and it’s what I hope we will all strive for here today and into the future.
Thank you.

Good morning! Thank you all. Thank you very much.
Well, it’s been quite a week, hasn’t it?
Well, thank you all so much. I am absolutely delighted to be here. As some of you may know, I had a pretty long day yesterday.
But I finally got to answer questions – something I’ve been pushing for literally a year. And I am just grateful I recovered my voice, which I lost a little bit.
But as I said at the start, I wanted to rise above partisanship and reach for statesmanship and that is what I tried to do.
And now I am delighted to be here with all of you, to be with the WLF – a group that actually focuses on the issues. You are women after my own heart.
…And I want to say a word about another great Democrat who has always been a champion for women and families and all of us. Vice President Joe Biden has been in the trenches with us for years. He fought for the Violence Against Women Act and so much more. And I’m confident that history isn’t finished with Joe Biden.
As he said the other day, there is more work to do and if I know Joe he’ll be right there with us on the front lines.
And I want to thank all of you for putting women’s voices, women’s ideas, women’s lives right where they belong – at the heart of American politics.
You know, it is sometimes hard to believe but the notion that women should be equal partners in the life of our nation is still pretty new.
That’s why the Women’s Leadership Forum was created to help make that ideal a reality.
During the 1992 campaign Tipper Gore and I traveled all over the country together and we spent a lot of time in people’s living rooms and their backyards, sitting around kitchen tables, talking with mothers and daughters and grandmothers about their lives.
And we heard so much. We heard about the dreams for the future that people had for themselves and their kids. And we heard a lot about the struggles that made life harder than it should be, the problems that kept women up at night.
Again and again, we would hear “You know, no one’s asked us these things before.”
To a lot of them, it seemed like Washington just wasn’t very interested in the actual real lives of women in our country.
So we decided that we had to make sure that in this party – our party – women’s voices would always be heard, that in this party – our party – the problems that keep women and their families up at night would always be front and center.
And we wanted to bring more women into the electoral process as voters and advocates, as organizers, fundraisers, candidates, and elected officials because we know women are half the country – indeed, slightly more – half the planet, and more than half the Democratic Party.

So if we want to make sure that women and families are better represented in politics, we need to get more of us involved in politics at every level. As we’d like to say, “When women lead, families succeed.”
And now 22 years later, women are a greater force in politics here in our country than ever before.
We are voting in greater numbers. Increasingly, we are the decisive voters in national elections.
More women are serving at high levels of government.
There are not one, not two, but three women on the Supreme Court.
And the number of women who have served in the Senate and the House has grown exponentially.
And now of course, another presidential season has begun and I’m doing everything I can to make sure that the issues that matter most to women and families are front and center in this race.
I started off my campaign last spring doing the same thing I did all those years when I ran for the Senate – traveling across the country, visiting people’s homes and schools and businesses and actually listening as they told me about their lives – the good and the bad, the hard. It was an amazing and humbling experience.
If you find the time and space to give people a chance to talk to you instead of you talking at them, they’ll share what’s in their hearts and in their hopes.
Now, many families do feel that things are a lot better for them and they give credit, as they should, to President Obama and his administration.
And I believe the President’s leadership and the hard work of the American people pulled our economy and our nation back from the brink. In fact, we could have had a Great Depression, not a Great Recession.
So as I travel across the country, I try to tell the story of what President Obama inherited – the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
So America is standing again but we’re not yet running the way we should be and families are still stretched in a million different directions and so are their budgets.
Costs keep rising but most people’s paychecks haven’t moved in years. But corporate profits and CEO pay keep rising. Quality child care costs more than college tuition in many states. And the minimum wage is a poverty wage. Millions of Americans are held back by student debt. And at a time when more women than ever are their families’ main breadwinners, too often they still don’t get equal pay. And women of color earn less than others. Right?
And just this week, the Department of Labor released new data showing that as our economy gets stronger, men’s pay is going up more than twice as fast as women’s pay.
You know, in one of my town halls in Nevada, I called on a little girl who was sitting with her father and you never know what kids are going to ask you which is why I try to call on at least one if they’re in my town hall. And this little girl stepped up and she said, “If you’re a girl president, will you be paid as much as a boy president?” I said, “Well, I think so. I think that’s in the law.”
But I think of the single mom that I met who’s juggling a job and classes at a community college while raising her three kids on her own. She’s doing what she has to to give her children a better life and she doesn’t expect anything to come easy. But she asked me, “Isn’t there anything we can do so it doesn’t have to be quite so hard?”
I think of the student who told me that paying for college shouldn’t be the hardest thing about going to college.
Or the man I met whose mother has Alzheimer’s. He’s a teacher. He can’t afford a full-time caretaker for her. He can’t quit his job or he wouldn’t be able to support her. So you know what he does? He brings her to work with him. There’s nothing else he can think of to do. And he told me this with so much sadness because this is not what he pictured for his mother’s golden years.

And it’s not just women taking care of aging parents, it is like this young man, men too. All of our caretakers deserve a lot more support.
And the same goes for other policies like paid family leave, fair and predictable shifts, higher wages so you don’t have to work two jobs to make ends meet and you could actually be home with your kids at night. And these are not just challenges for women. They’re challenges for all Americans.
Because I firmly believe when we fight for women, we’re fighting for our entire country and the reverse is true as well.
When we fight to make America fairer, stronger and more prosperous, we are also fighting for women.
When we fight to make college more affordable and student debt less punishing or to hold corporations accountable when they gouge us on drug prices or pollute our environment or exploit workers, that’s fighting for women and men and fighting for America.
And when we fight to create a pathway to citizenship for millions of immigrants or to make Social Security even stronger or to protect and improve the Affordable Care Act because every deserves access to quality affordable care.
And yes, that access should include basics like reproductive care, including birth control and pre-and-post natal care and cancer screenings. That’s why we have to defend Planned Parenthood against the attacks that are being waged.
When we fight to protect the equal rights of all our people no matter what they look like or who they love and when we fight to stop the epidemic of gun violence that’s claiming innocent lives every single day in every corner of our country, that’s fighting for women and men and fighting for America.
You know, I’ve been told to stop – and I quote – “shouting about gun violence.” Well, first of all, I’m not shouting. It’s just when women talk, some people think we’re shouting. And second, I will not be silenced because we will not be silenced, not by the gun lobby, not by the size of this challenge, not by any of it. Stopping gun violence is worth fighting for, and I’m ready to go and I hope you will join with me.
Now, none of these fights are new to me and I know they aren’t new to many of you. But we do have our work cut out for us because there are so many people with a very different vision for our country and they will say, do, and spend whatever it takes to advance their out-of-touch, out-of-date agenda.
For people who say they hate big government, Republicans sure spend a lot of time trying to restrict women’s reproductive health and reproductive rights.
After my experience yesterday, I am just amazed that they are even talking about setting up another special investigative committee this time to investigate Planned Parenthood, and I think we all know by now that’s just code for a partisan witch hunt. Haven’t we seen enough of that?
I’d like those Republican candidates who are advocating against Planned Parenthood to meet the mom who caught her cancer early thanks to a screening at Planned Parenthood or the young woman who avoided an unintended pregnancy because she did have access to birth control.
Now, I know that when I talk like this, Republicans will say I’m playing the gender card. Well, you know what? Here’s what I’d say: If calling for equal pay and paid leave and women’s health is playing the gender card, then deal me in.

Now, there’s a long campaign still ahead of us and other candidates from the other party may be out there hurling insults at everyone, talking about what’s wrong with America and pointing fingers to try to blame people for it.
Well, that’s not me.
I’m going to keep doing what I’ve always done and that’s fight for you and fight for your families.
And I am so grateful for the hundreds of thousands of grassroots activists who are joining me in this campaign, not only those fortunate enough like us to be in rooms like this one but the workers and students and teachers, the parents and grandparents all across our country who are giving $1 or $5 at a time because they too believe in what we are fighting for.
So we’ve come a long way in the past 22 years. I’m really proud of this organization and all that it has achieved.
The Women’s Leadership Forum has changed the Democratic Party. You’ve changed it for the better. We’re stronger than we’ve ever been.
So let’s keep fighting for that better future, for our children and our grandchildren.
Now, as some of you I’m sure know, I have the most amazing, extraordinary granddaughter, and she really does keep me going and thankfully my daughter and wonderful son-in-law send me little videos and little pictures, which have been a great boost along the campaign trail.
And I think a lot about her future. I think about what kind of opportunities she’ll have. But I also think about what kind of opportunities all the children of America will have, what kind of country will she become an adult in, what kind of world will be waiting for her.
Because I don’t think it’s enough for anybody that my granddaughter, your children and grandchildren, certainly the granddaughter of a former President, should be able to pursue her dreams when so many of our other children in this country are feeling left behind and left out.
For the first time in American history so far as I know, more than half of the kids in our public schools are eligible for free or reduced price lunches. Poverty has returned with a vengeance. We made a lot of progress against poverty, lifting families out of poverty back in the 90s.
I think it’s a verifiable fact that our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And both my husband and President Obama inherited economic challenges from their Republican predecessors. Both worked hard.
With my husband, it was dealing with an economy that wasn’t growing fast enough but then took off – 23 million new jobs and incomes rising at every part of our economy – top, middle, working, low-income people – all were doing better.
We handed over a balanced budget and a surplus to the incoming Republican administration and they squandered it all. Not only did they cut taxes dramatically on the wealthy, but they basically got out of the way of corporations. They took their eye off the financial markets. They didn’t pay a penny for the wars that they waged. And you know what happened.
And it took another Democratic president, who you will hear from later today, to come in and accept the responsibility which he did to try to repair the damage that had been done.
Now, everything that I’ve talked about before – all of our rights, all of our hopes – will be at risk if the Republicans once again are successful in making the same arguments they always make. It’s discredited. It doesn’t work. But that doesn’t stop them. They’ll be back talking about cutting taxes on the wealthy, getting out of the way of corporations. We know what that leads to – increasing inequality, exploitation of workers, pollution of our environment, denial of climate change, refusal to move into the 21st century with clean, renewable energy, a failure to provide early childhood education and universal pre-kindergarten so every kid has a chance to get ahead.
You can listen to their debates for hours – and unfortunately some of us have to – and you won’t hear a single solution to any of the problems we’re facing here at home or around the world.
So my campaign is really an effort to try to build an America where everyone – women and men – can rise as far as their talent and hard work take them, where everyone – everyone – has a shot at achieving their dreams and living up to their potential, and yes, where a father can say to his daughter, “You can be anything you want to be even president of the United States.”
Thank you all very much. Thank you!

…Did any of you see our debate in Las Vegas?
You know, when Republicans debate, they compete to insult each other, demean women, and they double down on trickle-down. Actually, it is reality TV with a cast of characters who don’t care much about actual reality.
But there’s a big difference when we Democrats debate you see something. You see us tackling the hard issues, looking for solutions to our biggest challenges facing our families and our country. How are we going to raise wages and create more good jobs? How will we respond to climate change and lift up our economy by investing in clean energy? How will we make college affordable and get parents the paid leave they need? How will we working with our teachers and our families help our kids get ready to succeed in school? And how are we going to rein in Wall Street and lift up Main Street? And how much longer can we wait to stand up to the gun lobby and keep our kids and our communities safe in America?
You see, we Democrats are offering real solutions like President Obama has done for the past 6.5 years.
And by his side, every step of the way has been Vice President Joe Biden. He has fought passionately for middle class families and middle class values. Let’s show him how much we appreciate Joe Biden and all he’s done for our country. Let’s give it up for the vice president!

You know, I think it’s really important in this election to remember what President Obama inherited.
The Republicans would like us all to forget but he inherited the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
You know, right after that election, he called me, asked me to come see him in Chicago. I didn’t know why. It turned out he wanted me to be Secretary of State. But when we got there, it was just the two of us and we were just talking and he was talking about what he was facing. He said, “You know, it’s so much worse than they told us.”
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month. Nine million Americans ended up losing their jobs and five million lost their homes.
And listen to this: $13 trillion of family wealth was wiped away.
I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for rescuing our economy from falling into a Great Depression.
He saved the auto industry. He imposed tough new rules on Wall Street. And he extended health care to 18 million Americans.
That’s what you can expect when you vote for Democrats.
When there’s a Democrat in the White House, America creates more jobs, the economy grows faster, and deficits are smaller.
And even though they hate it when I say this, recessions happen four times more frequently under Republican presidents.
So, we cannot afford to go back to the Republican’s failed policies.
Now, I’m not running for my husband’s third term and I’m not running for Barack Obama’s third term; I’m running for my first term and I’m running as a proud Democrat.
We need to defend the progress we’ve made under President Obama and build on it until the recovery is secure and all Americans have a chance to raise their incomes and to believe once again in the basic bargain of America. You know what it is – if you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
But for far too long, Republicans and their allies have stacked the deck for those at the top.
There is something wrong when the top 25 hedge fund managers earn more in a year than all the kindergarten teachers in America combined.
Or when top CEOs make 300 times what a typical worker does.
Or when corporate profits soar but employees don’t share in those profits.
When it’s easy for a big corporation to get tax break but it’s still too hard for a small business to get a loan.
When the CEO of a drug company jacks up the price of life-saving medicine by 5,000% overnight.
And when the governor of this state vetoes a bipartisan compromise to fund schools and keep mental health facilities open.
And now, your governor is threatening to privatize Medicaid and the Hawkeye Children’s Health Insurance Program – something I helped to start in the 1990s.
And thousands of Iowans are standing up and saying enough and I’m standing with you.
Now, I’ve got to tell you – you know that the Republican candidates can’t help themselves. They’re pushing the same failed policies that crashed our economy before. You know what they are – cutting taxes on the super wealthy, letting big corporations write their own rules, busting unions, ignoring the middle class. We’ve heard all this before and we know what it does.
And of course, none of them is serious about climate change.
I love it when they’re asked about it, you know what their answer is. “I’m not a scientist.” Well, why don’t they start listening to those who are scientists and understanding what we’re up against around the world?
And Republicans in Congress have now voted more than 50 times to repeal or weaken the Affordable Care Act. They want to force Americans – yeah, that is worthy of a big bunch of boos because they want to force Americans to start a contentious health care debate all over again.
Now, I believe we can improve the Affordable Care Act, but we’re not going to let them take us back to insurance companies writing their own rules again.
You know what that was like. They even charged women more for our coverage than men.
And we sure can’t let them take us back to the wild west on Wall Street – repeal Dodd-Frank, destroy the Consumer Financial Protection Board. We are going to stand firm. That’s why I’ve proposed tough actions to end the abuses by the big banks and the excessive risks in the so-called shadow banking system. We are going to stop Wall Street hurting Main Street.
And here we are. Everyone here is here because you know what’s at stake in this election – no matter who you’re for. And that’s pretty clear standing up here to see who’s sitting where. But we all agree on this: We can’t let Republicans keep rigging our elections with secret, unaccountable, dark money.
We need a Supreme Court that protects the right of every citizen to vote, not the right of every corporation to buy elections.
And I said from the very beginning of my campaign, even if it takes a constitutional amendment, we will overturn Citizens United once and for all.
And you know, I sometimes wonder whether if you sign up to be a Republican candidate for President, they put you into some kind of time machine and they take you back 50, 70, 100 years because they keep saying the same out-of-date, out-of-touch things.
We will never let the Republicans cut or privatize Social Security or end Medicare as some are now promising.
And I’ll tell you something else, I am going to back and support what President Obama has done to protect DREAMers and their families to use executive action to prevent deportation.
And I have said if we cannot get comprehensive immigration reform as we need and as we should with a real path to citizenship that will actually grow our economy, then I will go as far as I can even beyond President Obama to make sure law-abiding decent hardworking people in this country are not ripped away from their families.

And don’t you wonder you know for people who claim they hate big government, Republicans sure love using government to step in and make decisions for women about our bodies and our rights.
Well, I’ll tell you I will do everything I can to protect a woman’s right to choose and to defend Planned Parenthood.
Now, I know when I talk about these things Republicans say I’m playing the gender card. I know. Well, if talking about equal pay, paid family leave, affordable child care, and women’s health is playing the gender card, deal me in.
But I know and you know it’s enough to just rail against the Republicans or the billionaires. We actually have to win this election in order to rebuild the middle class and make a positive difference in people’s lives.
We have to build an America again where success is measured by how many people work their way into the middle class not how many CEOs get bonuses, by how many children climb out of poverty, how many families can afford health care, how many young people can go to college without taking on years of debt.
That’s how we should measure success in this country.
As I said at the debate in Las Vegas, I’m a progressive who likes to get things done and I still believe as a smart man once said “There’s nothing wrong with America that can’t be fixed by what is right with America.”

So when I hear Donald Trump when he says “We have to make America great again”, well, here’s what I say: America is great. We just have to make it fair and just. We have to make America work for everyone, not just those at the top.
Because I know that when Americans come together, come up with smart solutions, and fight to get results, there’s no challenge we can’t meet.
And at the top of my list of fights we have to wage and win, it’s this: Americans need a raise. That’s why we must raise the minimum wage. No one who works full-time should live in poverty.
And I want companies to have incentives to share more of their profits with their employees who help make those profits in the first place.
And companies that ship jobs and profits overseas shouldn’t get tax breaks; you should get tax breaks again.
I said I want to be the small business president and I mean it because small businesses will create most of the good new jobs of the future and they should have less red tape, easier access to credit and tax relief.
And to create those new good-paying jobs, we have to get back to investing in science and medical research.
We should establish an infrastructure bank to put Americans to work building our roads, our bridges, our airports, our rails, our broadband networks.
And I believe we can make America the world’s clean energy super power by setting and reaching big goals again.
How about this? Half a billion solar panels installed in four years and enough renewable energy produced to power every home in America in 10 years.
I know this can be done because Iowa is already leading the way. You’re producing roughly a third of your total electricity from wind and other renewables. I want the rest of the country to follow your lead.
…

And if we want our economy to grow like it should, then we have to make sure women who still earn less than men on the job and women of color who earn least of all finally get equal pay for equal work. Because when you shortchange women, you shortchange families and you shortchange America.
And my new college compact will help students and graduates refinance their debt just like you can with a mortgage or a car loan. And no one will have to borrow a cent to attend community college or pay tuition at a public college or university.
But let me say this while we fight for a growth and fairness economy that works for everyone, we can’t forget the quieter problems that don’t make the headlines.
I’m also fighting for the grandmother who told me she’s raising her grandchild because of her daughter’s struggles with drug addiction, for the mom who asked me what she’s going to do when her child with autism gets older, for every family trying to cope with untreated mental illness.
I’m fighting for the man I met whose mother has Alzheimer’s. He can’t afford a full-time caretaker. So you know what he does? He’s a teacher. He takes his mother to work with him.
For LGBT Americans who despite all our progress can married on Saturday and fired on Monday in a lot of states just because of who they are and who they love.
For our veterans of all ages who served our country with honor and courage and deserve the benefits they’ve earned without delays or abuses.
I am fighting to reform criminal justice for every mother and father who worry everyday that their child will be stopped by the police just for being African-American because yes, black lives matter.
And I am fighting to protect our kids and communities from the plague of gun violence. You should be safe when you go to school, when you go to the movies, when you go to church. That’s why I’m proposing common sense gun safety measures like universal background checks, closing the loopholes that let guns fall into the hands of those who shouldn’t have them, and repealing the law that shields gunmakers and sellers from accountability.
Now, I’ve been told to stop shouting about ending gun violence. Well, I haven’t been shouting but sometimes when a woman speaks out some people think it’s shouting. But I won’t be silenced and I hope you won’t be either. How many more people have to die before we take action?
Now, folks, I’ve been at this effort to change and reform our country for a long time and I haven’t won every battle. But I’ve learned from each one. I know how to stand my ground and how to find common ground.
That’s how I worked with a Republican Congress to help create the Children’s Insurance Program, which covers eight million kids. That’s why as a Senator I worked with Republicans to expand health benefits for our National Guard and Reserves and for the firefighters and police officers who rush toward danger on 9/11 and later grew sick from their time at Ground Zero.
And as your Secretary of State, I fought for human rights, women’s rights, LGBT rights, Internet freedom, American jobs and security.
But I also found common ground persuading Russia and China to join in imposing the toughest sanctions in history on Iran and working with Republicans and Democrats to get the 67 votes we needed to ratify a landmark nuclear arms control treaty.
I’ve spent my life working for children, women, families, and our country from the kitchen table to the peace table trying to even the odds for people who have the odds stacked against them and I’m just getting warmed up.
So I want you to know I’m listening to you. I’m fighting for you. And with your support, Iowa, I’m going to deliver.
And I didn’t learn about fairness, justice, opportunity and the American dream from politics; I learned about it from my own family.
My dad, who ran a small business in Chicago printing drapery fabric, taught me that anything good in life is worth working for. And my mom led a hard life – abandoned, mistreated, and working as a maid at the age of 14 – told me that at crucial moments people showed her kindness like that first grade teacher who made sure she had enough to eat when her parents didn’t even care enough to make sure of that. It’s one of the many reasons I’m grateful to our educators. Instead of becoming bitter or broken, she became resilient. She taught me that everybody gets knocked down in life but that doesn’t mean you stay down. Get back up, face your challenges, solve your problems, don’t just complain about them.
So, let me tell you, I’m the granddaughter of a factory worker and a grandmother of the most wonderful little girl in the world. And Bill and I will do everything we can to ensure she has every opportunity to succeed in life.
But I don’t think you should have to be the granddaughter of a former president to share in the promise of America.
The granddaughters and grandsons of factory workers and truck drivers and nurses and farmers should have that same chance too.
Every one of America’s children and grandchildren should have the opportunity to live up to their God-given potential. That’s what I’m fighting for – for the struggling, the striving, and the successful. I’m fighting for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refuse to be knocked out.
And together we’re going to build an America where there are no ceilings for anyone, where no gets left behind or left out, and yes where a father can tell his daughter “You can be anything you want to be including president of the United States of America.”
Thank you and God bless you!

And I have gone across this country making the point that when President Obama came into office, he inherited the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and he doesn’t get the credit he deserves for digging us out of that big hole that he was handed when he came in.
So, it’s been a long slow effort, which thanks to him and his leadership and many, many millions of Americans, we are exactly where Roland [sp] said we are – down to 5% unemployment, jobs are coming back.
But incomes are not rising. And so we have two big problems.
One, we’ve got to get incomes for everybody to go back up.
And number, we’ve got to get more good jobs and we do need in my opinion a targeted effort at people and communities that have not had the benefits of the recovery thus far and we need to go even further.
So very quickly, we need once and for all to have a very big infrastructure program on our roads, our bridges, tunnels, airports, rail systems where we can put millions of people to work.
Number two, we need to combat climate change by becoming the clean energy super power of the 21st century. That means putting wind turbines and installing solar panels and doing energy efficiency work and all the work that will enable us not only to have the economy grow but move away from fossil fuels.
Number three, we need to start investing in small business and my particular hope is that I can be the small business president and I want to focus on women and minority owned small businesses in our country again.
So all of those things I think will make a difference.
But we also have a problem, you know, labor unions are not the problem in much of the south because they are all right to work states. So we’ve got to make sure that anywhere we do infrastructure if the federal government has any money into it, there must be a program for recruiting and hiring and where necessary training people from less advantaged communities, and that’s going to be my goal.

So I will look for ways to try to number one stop the damage so that we don’t lose more homes because people still haven’t recovered. But number two, we’ve got to get back into the homeownership business and a lot of financial institutions are reluctant to loan and they’re more reluctant to loan to African-American and Latinos…
And we’re now starting to see some of the bad behavior coming from the folks who bought those homes. You know, they’re forcing people out. Big article today about misleading people and forcing them to turn over their home under false pretenses.
So you’re right. What happened in ’07, ’08 is just beyond horrible. You know, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out, most of it in homeownership but also in IRA, 401ks, college funds. Everybody had to take the money out in order to live.
So we have a lot of catching up to do and it’s not enough if just some people recover. I want to do what I can to help everybody recover.
Question on people being denied jobs due to poor credit scores and whether Clinton supports Rep. Maxine Waters’s bill to reform the Fair Credit Act:
Hillary Clinton:
…I generally agree with that. I don’t know the specifics of Maxine’s legislation but I will obviously look at it immediately but I want to make two general points.
One, sometimes credit reports are wrong. But let’s deal with that problem…and that is a serious problem for a lot of people.
Secondly, look, I think a lot of credit problems particularly for young people have to do with student debt, have to do with credit cards that they have to use in order to stay in college, in order to be able to get their education. There are a lot of reasons why I don’t think you should have credit reports following you around like some anchor you have to carry with you.
So yeah, I want people to be responsible. I want them to pay their debt. But I also want to make sure you’ve got a second chance and it shouldn’t be that you are denied a job that has nothing to do as I understand…with your credit score, your credit situation.
So we need to take a hard look at and I’ll take a look at Maxine’s bill.
And I’ve met with them. I’ve had some very good open productive conversations with representatives of the Black Lives Matter movement.
I wish they had listened because a lot of what we have talked about together are part of the proposals that I’m making.
And the reason we roll them out – and this is an interesting point to make to you as a leading member of the press – is you get more attention paid to them. If you put them out one day, it’s a one day story. If you roll them out, you get covered as you roll them out.
So we’ve been rolling out starting with the very first speech that I gave in this campaign back in, I don’t know, March or April about criminal justice reform and incarceration reform. And I want to keep doing that because I want people to look at what I am proposing.
We’re going to reduce minimum mandatory sentences. We’re going to finally remove the difference between powder and crack cocaine, which has been a terrible unfair burden. We are going to ban the box and let people apply for jobs and only at the end if they get to that end they get to be – they talk about whatever record they might have. We’re going to invest much more in treatment and recovery and support and jobs and training programs.
So we have a very robust agenda and I feel very committed to this. And I particularly want young people who share the impatience and the disappointment.
And you know, we should be talking about going forward but I will say back in the ‘90s that bills was in response to a horrific decade of crime and leaders of the communities of color and poor communities were in the forefront saying “You must do something.” And it was done and it did have a lot of positive but also negative unintended consequences. That’s why we have to take another look. That’s what a democracy should do – look at the evidence and make changes based on it.

…This is like everything else. It cuts both ways.
If you reduce the mandatory minimums, I believe then we can see does it reduce discrimination and discrimination can be on both sides. Because what happens right now which you know so well is that African-American men are far more likely to be arrested, to be charged, to be convicted, to be incarcerated for doing the same things as white men. So we want to reduce those minimums but we also don’t want to open the door to a different form of discrimination. So we’re looking hard at how this would actually be applied in the real world.
And for all those Republicans who say this is not a real world problem, I wish they would come to my town halls because I don’t know who they’re talking to because it is.
I think there are several things we do. Number one, just talking about it, making sure people can’t ignore it or diminish it or pretend that it’s somebody else’s problem.
But then we have to enforce the laws that are already on the books and I will do that vigilantly because this is not just a woman’s issue. This is a family issue and this is an economic issue.
And the other thing is one of the things – and you got right to it – one of the things that stands in the way of knowing how widespread this is is the fact that in many businesses you can be fired for asking somebody else in the business how much they’re paid. So a lot of women don’t know they are being paid less than the men that they’re working beside doing the same job.
That’s what happened to Lilly Ledbetter – the woman in Alabama who had worked in a big factory for years. She got promoted. Okay. She became the first woman foreman – I guess a woman forewoman – and she worked there and it was only by accident that she learned that although there were four of five men doing the very same job, she was being paid less.
So I want to remove any doubt that transparency is acceptable and if there needs to be changes in the rules or the laws about businesses so that they cannot retaliate, so that you can find out how much you’re being paid so that you can compare your pay to other workers in the same situation.
I’ll just tell you a real quick story. A young man came up to me in New Hampshire. He said to me, “I want to tell you why I’m for you.” He was mid to late 20s. He said his first real job was working as a cashier in the same store that his mother worked in – part of a chain – and he was 17. And he was so proud because this was like the first job and he got it because his mother introduced him to somebody. It was, you know, great.
So he comes home with his first paycheck. His mother looks at him and her face falls. And she tells him “You’re making $1 more an hour than I am and I’ve been there for years?”
So he went to find out and the manager said, “Well, yeah, you’re a young man. We think you’ve got a lot of potential to go up in the business.”
“Well, what about my mother?”
So we’re going to tackle this and we’re going to end it once and for all.

90 people a day die in our country from guns. Homicide, suicide, and avoidable accident like what the gentleman was referring to. And it is imperative that people make this a voting issue.
I know we can balance the legitimate rights of gun owners with the right to be safe going to school or going to church, the right to have more control over what happens in people going stores to buy guns who shouldn’t have them. So here’s what I am proposing.
Number one, we need universal background checks for real. We need to close the gunshow loophole. We need to close the online loophole because people are buying guns and ammunitions online. You have no idea who they are. And we know some of the mass murderers, that’s how they got what they used to kill people.
We need to close what’s called the Charleston loophole. That Charleston loophole is unfortunately what enabled that young man to get a gun he was not entitled to. He was a felon. He had a felony conviction. But under the rules, three business days is all you get to find out, and the information hadn’t been shared between two jurisdictions. So after three days, he went and he got that gun and he went to Mother Emanuel and he murdered those nine wonderful people.
And then we need to remove the immunity that gunmakers and sellers have. They’re the only industry in America that we give blanket immunity to. You can do anything.
And then that gets to the final point I want to make about what you asked. Gunmakers should be required to apply technology that currently exists so that guns owned by responsible adults cannot be operated by children or if they are stolen cannot be used by criminals.
And what I am just appalled at are the numbers of young children – I’m talking toddlers – who go into a closet or go under a bed or open a drawer and there’s a loaded gun. And these children kill themselves. They kill their playmates. They kill their siblings. They kill their parents. They injure people. That is crazy, my friends.
So I know that the NRA and the gun lobby are powerful. But I think the American people are more powerful and the right to life is the most powerful of all.
If you are going to a public college or university, you will not have to borrow money to pay for tuition and you will be able to use your Pell Grant if you get one for living expenses.
And so we are going to make it possible for far more young people to be able to go to college, finish college, and graduate without that debt.
With respect to HBCUs, that will help the public HBCUs because they will certainly be included. But I want to go further than that and I have a special provision of a pot of $25 billion for HBCUs including private institutions because I agree completely…these are the places that graduate black professionals. And we need more and not fewer and I will reverse the impact of the loan changes.
…Well, first of all, my plan will mean that it’s not necessary. But for those young dropped out, we need to figure out how to get them back in so we have to reverse the effects that led them to have to drop out.

I don’t think we can blame the loss of the textile industry on NAFTA. I think it was broader than that. NAFTA may have opened the door more widely for jobs to go to Mexico. But textile jobs were under global pressure even without NAFTA.
But what does that mean because the other side of the equation was that South Carolina has attracted a great number of car companies, more advanced manufacturing companies. So it’s a mind of good news, bad news story.
What I want to do is to make it possible for us to recruit both internally within the United States and externally from abroad more jobs and I’ll be honest with you I’m not sure we can get textile jobs back unless they are more sophisticated, requiring higher levels of expertise in the dying and the printing and whatever else is required.
But I do think we can get more advanced manufacturing jobs back if we provide more tax credit and more tax support, if we do what I said at the very beginning we have more apprenticeship programs so we are training our workforce right here at home.
The community college system is one of our biggest advantages in any measurement of how we can be successful, and I’ve been to a good community college outside of Charleston, which is doing these apprenticeship programs in advanced manufacturing.
But let me just say we’re not going to get those jobs back unless we have skilled workers to be able to do them. And that’s where education comes in because we have still too many people who don’t have the skills that are required to do the advanced manufacturing. So I want a nationwide effort but to focus on poorer states with larger poor populations like South Carolina to do more in a kind of a, as you were saying, a new New Deal or a new training program so that we actually take seriously the idea that we can get and keep these jobs.
And it’s one of the reasons why I came out against the Trans-Pacific Partnership bill because we have to trade. Look, we are 5% of the world’s population. We have to build things and sell things to the other 95%. So people who are against trade under any circumstances no matter what I think are kind of missing the point. We need smart trade and fair trade and effective trade.
And we need to mix it with taking care of our own people.
So if you open the door to trade, which I’m all for, you’ve got to make sure you’ve got people in your own country who are able to compete for those jobs. And the Republicans are all for trade, but they’re not for job training, they’re not for pre-school education that will prepare kids, they’re not for re-skilling the workforce. They don’t want to spend any money on that.
And I am holding out to say, “Okay, we can do trade, but we can only do trade that is going to benefit the American people across the board if we invest in our own people and we give them the skills and opportunities to be successful.”

And the reason I proposed it is because I believe strongly that young people should be registered when they turn 18.
Now, for legal reasons, they can opt out of that but I don’t think the vast majority would and I want to see young people registered at 18.
But you raise a much bigger point.
You know, when the Supreme Court – and these are my words – gutted the Voting Rights Act by rejecting the Congress reauthorizing it. And I was in the Senate then. We voted 98 to nothing to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act. The Supreme Court was basically sending a message to political leaders that they could begin to try to find new ways to interfere with the right to vote. Now, that may not have been their intention but that has been the result.
And all these photo ID – you know, we did not have a problem of any magnitude whatsoever. Our problem is not people illegally trying to vote. Our problem is that legal folks are not doing what they should to vote to make sure their voices are heard. And so I have been taking on this issue and I’m going to keep taking it on.
And I think the Supreme Court was absolutely wrong. There’s legislation now being promoted in the Congress to try to repair the damage that the Supreme Court did.
But in the meantime, we need to have political action, we need to have litigation, we need to have mobilization against these efforts to suppress the vote.
Now, you ask yourself, “Why are they doing that? Well, it’s pretty simple.” There are some people they don’t want to vote. And I’ll give you a perfect example.
Alabama passed a voter ID bill and they said, “Okay, one of the voter IDs you can use is a driver’s license with your picture on it.”
Well, you know, I don’t believe they’re necessary but you know that okay, you can use a voter ID that way.
And then just a few months ago, they passed a bill and the governor acts to shut down the motor vehicle offices in the counties that have the biggest black population.
Now, you know, I spent 18 wonderful years in Arkansas and I learned a lot, and one of my favorite philosophy lessons is this: If you find a turtle on a fencepost, it did not get there by accident.
And so I went to Alabama and I said “Look, nobody can believe this. You don’t close the offices in the counties with the biggest African-American votes and it’s a coincidence.”
So, people have got to stand up against this. I think it’s time that there be an outrage – an outpouring – from communities across these states that are doing this.
And it’s going to be one of my highest priorities and I’m going to do everything that I can to help people get registered, to make sure people understand that they meet whatever the requirements are, and that they then turn out to vote because we need to have a big turnout in the 2016 election.

And what I have worked on through my work with the Children’s Defense Fund and my work on education in Arkansas and through my time as First Lady and Senator is to continue to say charter schools can have a purpose but you know there are good charter schools and there are bad charter schools, just like there are good public schools and there are bad public schools.
…But the original idea behind the charter schools…was to learn what worked and then apply them in the public schools.
And here’s a couple of problems. Most charter schools – I don’t want to say every one but most charter schools – they don’t take the hardest to teach kids or if they do they don’t keep them.
And so, the public schools are often in a no-win situation because they do, thankfully, take everybody, and then they don’t get the resources or the help and support that they need to be able to take care of every child’s education.
So I want parents to be able to exercise choice within the public school system – not outside of it but within it – because I am still a firm believer that the public school system is one of the real pillars of our democracy and it is a path for opportunity. But I am also fully aware that there are a lot of substandard public schools. But part of the reason for that is that policymakers and local politicians will not fund schools in poor areas that take care of poor children to the level that they need to be.
And you could get me going on this because it’s not – I mean, the corridor of shame right here in South Carolina, you get on there and you can see schools that are literally falling apart. I’ve been in some of those schools. I have seen the terrible physical conditions. That is an outrage. It is a rebuke to who we are as Americans to send any child to a school that you wouldn’t send your own child to. And so [we’ve got] a lot of work to do to make sure that public schools serve people but that doesn’t mean we don’t also provide options within the system so that parents can find what they think might work best for their kids.
And I want to put an end date to the debt. I mean, if you have been vigilant and diligent in paying it back, there’s got to be an end date. I also want to get more young people the option to go into income contingency repayment programs like I had and my husband had. We had loans but we got to pay them back as a percentage of income, not as a fixed interest rate. So we’re going to get the cost of student debt down.
But the other problem is we need to get the pay of people who are in the workforce up and it’s not going up. That was one of the first points I made. We recovered a lot of jobs – millions and millions of jobs. We’re down to 5% unemployment. But pay has not yet been rising.
So we’ve got to do more to get pay to go up, and there are obvious things to do like raise the minimum wage and then that usually has an upward impact on wages going up the scale. I want more companies to engage in profit-sharing because their employees help to create the profits and I want to see it go not just to the top.
We’re going to close loopholes and we’re going to make sure that people who are making huge salaries pay their fair share in taxes.
So we’re going to go after the problem of wages not rising so that you can get your debt down and hopefully your income up.

And there are good examples of it working. But increasingly in later years, it has not.
And there are two approaches. One, the Treasury Department and the bank regulators need to ensure the banks are meeting their obligations under community reinvestment. And there are a lot of good programs that we can point to. If they don’t know what to do, we can show them what to do and what will work to create economic opportunity.
And secondly, you mentioned Shore Bank, which I worked with, and then in Arkansas, I helped to start the Arkansas Development Corporation because I think that in addition to getting conventional banks to do what they can, we need some more of these development banks – like South Shore was the example – and what we did in Arkansas has had a real positive effects.
Now, the final thing I’ll say about this is, you know, there’s a big fight going on in Washington about the Dodd-Frank bill and the rules that it placed on the banking community primarily aimed at the biggest banks that were contributors to some of the problems that we had like the mortgage and other problems that we were talking about earlier.
A lot of community banks say “Hey, those rules fell on us too. We’re just a small community bank or a small regional bank.”
So I want to without giving any relief to the big banks because I do think they need to be regulated so they don’t get us in trouble again, I want to provide, you know, some opportunities for community banks to be able to once more be partners in community reinvestments. So those are my approaches.
But what I do want is for us to support research into medical marijuana because a lot more states have passed medical marijuana than have legalized marijuana. So we’ve got two different experiences or even experiments going on right now.
And the problem with medical marijuana is that there is a lot of anecdotal evidence for how well it works for certain conditions but we haven’t done any research. Why? Because it’s considered what’s called a Schedule I drug and you can’t even do research in it.
So I would like to move it from what’s called a Schedule I to Schedule II so that researchers at universities, at the National Institutes of Health could start researching what’s the best way to use it, how much dose does somebody need, how does it interact with other medications. Because if we’re going to have a lot of states setting up marijuana dispensaries so that people who have some kind of medical need are getting marijuana, we need to know what’s the quality of it, how much should you take, what should you avoid if you’re taking other medications. So that’s how I’m currently thinking about it.
I have another friend, a young lawyer, who has sickle cell. And she’s really, really smart, and she works really, really hard and then she has to go into the hospital.
I mean, this is a devastating disease. And so yes, I think we need to put more money, more time, more effort into figuring out how we’re going to finally cure and end sickle cell anemia.

In addition to the little merit badge things…I learned about teamwork. I learned about cooperating with other people. I learned how important it is that when you say you’re going to do something, you do everything you can to keep your word and do it.
I learned about how scouting has for so many decades now helped young women and young men learn things that they might not have otherwise learned.
You know, my family was not a camping family. You know, we drove every year from Chicago to Pennsylvania to see my grandparents and we slept in the car, and so we weren’t into the forests and the woods and all of that.
So learned specific things as well as general values and character traits that I think are really important for everybody to learn but which scouting has made a big difference in.
But I also believe the VA has done good things. And the Republicans are always trying to privatize everything – privatize education, privatize Social Security, privatize Medicare, and yes, privatize the VA.
So I’m going to fix it and I will appoint somebody with proven management experience who will weed out those who should not be there in the first place and programs that are not work, take what is good about the VA and make sure it is available to all of our veterans. That is my goal.

And we just had a study come out that said poor white middle aged Americans without a high school education are dying at a higher rate than they have ever died before – addiction, alcoholism, suicide.
So poverty is poverty.
There’s a great idea that Congressman Jim Clyburn has put forward called 10-20-30 that 10% of federal funds would go to communities where 20% of the people are living in poverty and have done so for more 30 years.
[Moderator: Two thirds of those counties are Republican counties.]
And white – predominately white. And so as Jim Clyburn pointed out to me when he was describing this to me, this would be a recipe for dealing with poverty everywhere based on the numbers.
If you’re living in an impoverished generational situation, then you need help and the government should not be turning its back on you.
And I’m in favor of empowerment. One of the programs that my husband put into place – The New Markets Tax Credit – was used to help build up poor rural communities, to provide more economic opportunities, and it’s been allowed to lapse by the Republican Congress. There are tools at our disposal.
But the point that you make is an especially important one. We need to be talking about this so that the caricatures and the stereotypes that too often flood the media are once and for all retired. Poor is poor.
And if you compare – and I was in Louisiana not so long ago – and the prior Democratic governor in Arkansas expanded Medicaid, got a special waiver from the federal government to do it in a way that he could get it through his legislature. But the fact is hundreds of thousands of poor Arkansans got it. Across the board in Louisiana, their Republican governor running for president wouldn’t do it so hundreds of thousands of people were left out.
Now, I don’t know how you justify that especially since the federal government is paying 100% of the cost until in a few years it’ll pay 90% of the cost.
Because we want people to be well. I mean, you talk about this recent study that I mentioned where you have middle aged white folks killing themselves, getting addicted to drugs and alcohol, not getting help for mental illness or substance abuse. That’s a health problem. And people are oftentimes – in rural areas especially – not as reachable through health systems.
So I think we’ve got to look at this from the perspective of what do we do to make our country healthier and the people most in need of that are poor people wherever they live and whoever they are.
So I feel passionately about this. As I said, my first job out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund started by Marian Wright Edelman from Bennettsville, South Carolina…My first job for the Children’s Defense Fund was coming to South Carolina to do an investigation about juveniles in adult jails. Sound familiar? So I mean, we make progress but then we kind of fall back. You cannot grow weary doing the work that is necessary to help people have dignity and develop their own potential, and that’s what health is about. If you don’t have that, you don’t have anything.

…I wanted to come here to our city, which has shown such resilience in the face of terrorism, to talk about the events of the past week and the work we must do together to protect our country and our friends.
When the United States was hit on 9/11, our allies treated that attack against one as an attack against all. Now it’s our turn to stand in solidarity with France and all of our friends. We cherish the same values. We face the same adversaries. We must share the same determination.
After a major terrorist attack, every society faces a choice between fear and resolve.
The world’s great democracies can’t sacrifice our values or turn our backs on those in need. Therefore we must choose resolve and we must lead the world to meet this threat.
Now, let’s be clear about what we’re facing. Beyond Paris, in recent days we’ve seen deadly terrorist attacks in Nigeria, Lebanon, Iraq, and Turkey, and a Russian civilian airline destroyed over the Sinai.
At the heart of today’s new landscape of terror is ISIS. They persecute religious and ethnic minorities, kidnap and behead civilians, murder children. They systematically enslave, torture, and rape women and girls.
ISIS operates across three mutually reinforcing dimensions – a physical enclave in Iraq and Syria, an international terrorist network that includes affiliates across the region and beyond, and an ideological movement of radical jihadism.
We have to target and defeat all three, and time is of the essence.
ISIS is demonstrating new ambition, reach, and capabilities. We have to break the group’s momentum and then its back.
Our goal is not to deter or contain ISIS but to defeat and destroy ISIS.
But we have learned we can score victories over terrorist leaders and networks only to face metastasizing threats down the road. So we also have to play and win the long game.
We should pursue a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy – one that embeds our mission against ISIS within a broader struggle against radical jihadism that is bigger than any one group whether it’s Al Qaeda or ISIS or some other network.
An immediate war against an urgent enemy and a generational struggle against an ideology with deep roots will not be easily torn out.
It will require sustained commitment in every pillar of American power. This is a worldwide fight and America must lead it.
Our strategy should have three main elements.
One, defeat ISIS in Syria, Iraq, and across the Middle East.
Two, disrupt and dismantle the growing terrorist infrastructure that facilitates the flow of fighters financing arms and propaganda around the world.
Three, pardon our defenses and those of our allies against external and homegrown threats.
Let me start with the campaign to defeat ISIS across the region.
The United States and our international coalition has been conducting this fight for more than a year. It’s time to begin a new phase and intensify and broaden our efforts to smash the would-be caliphate and deny ISIS control of territory in Iraq and Syria.
That starts with a more effective coalition air campaign with more allied planes, more strikes and a broader target set.
A key obstacle standing in the way is a shortage of good intelligence about ISIS and its operations.
So we need an immediate intelligence surge in the region, including technical assets, Arabic speakers with deep expertise in the Middle East and even closer partnership with regional intelligence services.
Our goal should be to achieve the kind of penetration we accomplished with Al Qaeda in the past.
This would help us identify and eliminate ISIS’s command and control and its economic lifelines.
A more effective coalition air campaign is necessary but not sufficient, and we should be honest about the fact that to be successful, air strikes will have to be combined with ground forces actually taking back more territory from ISIS.
Like President Obama, I do not believe that we should again have 100,000 American troops in combat in the Middle East. That is just not the smart move to make here.
If we’ve learned anything from 15 years of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, it’s that local people and nations have to secure their own communities. We can help them and we should. But we cannot substitute for them.
But we can and should support local and regional ground forces in carrying out this mission.
Now, the obstacles to achieving this are significant.
On the Iraqi side of the border, Kurdish forces have fought bravely to defend their own lands and to re-take towns from ISIS.
But the Iraqi national army has struggled, and it’s going to take more work to get it up to fighting shape.
As part of that process, we may have to give our own troops advising and
training the Iraqis greater freedom of movement and flexibility, including embedding in local units and helping target air strikes.
Ultimately, however, the ground campaign in Iraq will only succeed if more Iraqi Sunnis join the fight.
But that won’t happen so long as they do not feel they have a stake in their country or confidence in their own security and capacity to confront ISIS.
Now, we’ve been in a similar place before in Iraq.
In the first Sunni awakening in 2007, we were able to provide sufficient support and assurances to the Sunni tribes to persuade them to join us in rooting out Al Qaeda.
Unfortunately, under Prime Minister Maliki’s rule, those tribes were betrayed and forgotten.
So the task of bringing Sunnis off the sidelines into this new fight will be considerably more difficult.
But nonetheless, we need to lay the foundation for a second Sunni awakening.
We need to put sustained pressure on the government in Baghdad to get its political house in order, move forward with national reconciliation, and finally stand up a national guard.
Baghdad needs to accept even embrace arming Sunni and Kurdish forces in the war against ISIS. But if Baghdad won’t do that, the coalition should do so directly.
On the Syrian side, the big obstacle to get more ground forces to engage ISIS beyond the Syrian Kurds who are already deep in the fight is that the viable Sunni opposition groups remain understandably pre-occupied with fighting Assad, who let us remember has killed many more Syrians than the terrorists have. But they are increasingly under threat from ISIS as well.
So we need to move simultaneously toward a political solution to the civil war that paves the way for a new government with new leadership and to encourage more Syrians to take on ISIS as well.
To support them, we should immediately deploy the special operations force President Obama has already authorized and be prepared to deploy more as more Syrians get into the fight.
And we should re-tool and ramp up our efforts to support and equip viable Syrian opposition units.
Our increased support should go hand-in-hand with increased support from our Arab and European partners, including special forces who can contribute to the fight on the ground.
We should also work with the coalition and the neighbors to impose no-fly zones that will stop Assad from slaughtering civilians and the opposition from the air.
Opposition forces on the ground with material support from the coalition could then help create safe areas where Syrians could remain in the country rather than fleeing toward Europe.
This combined approach would help enable the opposition to retake the remaining stretch of the Turkish border from ISIS, choking off its supply lines.
It would also give us new leverage in the diplomatic process that Secretary Kerry is pursuing.
Of course, we’ve been down plenty of diplomatic dead ends before in this conflict. But we have models for how seemingly intractable multi-sectarian civil wars do eventually end. We can learn lessons from Lebanon and Bosnia on what it will take.
And Russia and Iran have to face the fact that continuing to prop up a vicious dictator will not bring stability.
Right now, I’m afraid President Putin is actually making things somewhat worse.
Now, to be clear though there is an important role for Russia to help in resolving the conflict in Syria, and we have indicated a willingness to work with them toward an outcome that preserves Syria as a unitary, non-sectarian state with protections for the rights of all Syrians and to keep key state institutions in tact.
There is no alternative to a political transition that allows Syrians to end Assad’s rule.
Now, much of this strategy on both sides of the border hinges on the roles of our Arab and Turkish partners and we must get them to carry their share of the burden with military intelligence and financial contributions as well as using their influence with fighters and tribes in Iraq and Syria.
Countries like Jordan have offered more and we should take them up on it because ultimately our efforts will only succeed if the Arabs and Turks step up in a much bigger way. This is their fight, and they need to act like it.
So far, however, Turkey has been more focused on the Kurds than on countering ISIS. And to be fair, Turkey has a long and painful history with Kurdish terrorist groups.
But the threat from ISIS cannot wait. As difficult as it may be, we need to get Turkey to stop bombing Kurdish fighters in Syria who are battling ISIS and become a full partner in our coalition efforts against ISIS.
The United States should also work with our Arab partners to get them more invested in the fight against ISIS. At the moment, they’re focused in other areas because of their concerns in the region, especially the threat from Iran.
That’s why the Saudis for example shifted attention from Syria to Yemen.
So we have to work out a common approach.
In September, I laid out a comprehensive plan to counter Iranian influence across the region and its support for terrorist proxies such as Hezbollah and Hamas.
We cannot view Iran and ISIS as separate challenges. Regional politics are too interwoven.
Raising the confidence of our Arab partners and raising the cost to Iran for bad behavior will contribute to a more effective fight against ISIS.
And as we work out a broader regional approach, we should of course be closely consulting with Israel, our strongest ally in the Middle East. Israel increasingly shares with our Arab partners and has the opportunity to do more in intelligence and joint efforts as well.
Now, we should have no illusions about how difficult the mission before us really is. We have to fit a lot of pieces together, bring along a lot of partners, move on multiple fronts at once.
But if we press forward on both sides of the border, in the air, and on the ground as well as diplomatically, I do believe we can crush ISIS’s enclave of terror.
And to support this campaign, Congress should swiftly pass an updated authorization to use military force. That will send a message to friend and foe alike that the United States is committed to this fight. The time for delay is over. We should get this done.
Now, the second element of our strategy looks beyond the immediate battle field of Iraq and Syria to disrupt and dismantle global terrorist infrastructure on the ground and online.
A terror pipeline that facilitates the flow of fighters, financing arms, and propaganda around the world has allowed ISIS to strike at the heart of Paris last week and an Al Qaeda to do the same at Charlie Hebdo earlier this year.
ISIS is working hard to extend its reach, establish affiliates and cells far from its home base.
And despite the significant setbacks it has encountered not just with ISIS and its ambitious plans but even Al Qaeda, including the death of Osama bin Laden, they are still posing great threats to so many.
Let’s take one example. We’ve had a lot of conversations about ISIS in the last week. Let’s not forget Al Qaeda. They still have the most sophisticated bomb makers, ambitious plotters, and active affiliates in places like Yemen and North Africa.
So we can’t just focus on Iraq and Syria. We need to intensify our counter-terrorism efforts on a wider scope.
Most urgent is stopping the flow of foreign fighters to and from the war zones of the Middle East.
Thousands – thousands – of young recruits have flocked to Syria from France, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, and yes, even the United States. Their western passports make it easier for them to cross borders and eventually return home radicalized and battle hardened.
Stemming this tide will require much better coordination and information sharing among countries every step of the way.
We should not stop pressing until Turkey, where most foreign fighters cross into Syria, finally locks down its border.
The United States and our allies need to know and share the identities of every fighter who has traveled to Syria. We also have to be smart and target interventions that will have the greatest impact.
For example, we need a greater focus on shutting down key enablers who arrange transportation documents and more.
When it comes to terrorist financing, we have to go after the nodes that facilitate illicit trade and transactions.
The UN Security Council should update its terrorism sanctions. They have a resolution that does try to block terrorist financing and other enabling activities, but we have to place more obligations on countries to police their own banks. And the United States, which has quite a record of success in this area, can share more intelligence to help other countries.
And once and for all, the Saudis, the Qataris and others need to stop their citizens from directly funding extremist organizations as well as the schools and mosques around the world that have sent too many young people on a path to radicalization.
When it comes to block terrorist recruitment, we have to identify the hot spots, the specific neighborhoods and villages, the prisons and schools where recruitment happens in clusters, like the neighborhood in Brussels where the Paris attacks were planned.
Through partnerships with local law enforcement and civil society, especially with Muslim Community leaders we have to work to tip the balance away from extremism in these hot spots.
Radicalization and recruitment also is happening online. There’s no doubt we have to do a better job contesting online space including websites and chat rooms where jihadists communicate with followers. We must deny them virtual territory just as we deny them actual territory.
At the State Department, I built up a unit of communications specialists fluent in Urdu, Arabic, Somali, and other languages to battle with extremists online.
We need more of that including from the private sector. Social media companies can also do their part by swiftly shutting down terrorist accounts so they’re not used to plan, provoke, or celebrate violence.
Online or offline the bottom line is that we are in a contest of ideas against an ideology of hate and we have to win.
Let’s be clear, though. Islam is not our adversary. Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism.
The obsession in some quarters with a clash of civilization or repeating the specific words “radical Islamic terrorism” isn’t just a distraction. It gives these criminals, these murderers more standing than they deserve. It actually plays into their hands by alienating partners we need by our side.
Our priority should be how to fight the enemy. In the end, it didn’t matter what kind of terrorist we called Bin Laden; it mattered that we killed Bin Laden.
But we still can’t close our eyes to the fact that there is a distorted and dangerous stream of extremism within the Muslim world that continues to spread.
Its adherence are relatively few in number but capable of causing profound damage most especially to their own communities through an arc of instability that stretches from north and west Africa to Asia.
Overlapping conflicts, collapsing state structures, widespread corruption, poverty and repression, have created openings for extremists to exploit.
Before the Arab Spring, I warned that the region’s foundations would sink into the sand without immediate reforms. Well, the need has only grown more urgent.
We have to join with our partners to do the patient steady work of empowering moderates and marginalizing extremists, supporting democratic institutions and the rule of law, creating economic growth that supports stability, working to curb corruption, helping train effective and accountable law enforcement, intelligence, and counter terrorism services.
As we do this, we must be building up a global counter-terrorism infrastructure that is more effective and adaptable than the terror networks we’re trying to defeat.
When I became Secretary of State, I was surprised to find that nearly a decade after 9/11, there was still no dedicated international vehicle to regularly convene key countries to deal with terrorist threats.
So we created the global counter-terrorism forum which now brings together nearly 30 countries, many from the Muslim world.
It should be a clearing house for directing assistance to countries that need it, for mobilizing common action against threats.
And let’s not lose sight of the global cooperation needed to lock down loose nuclear material and chemical and biological weapons and keep them out of the hands of terrorists.
At the end of the day, we still must be prepared to go after terrorists wherever they plot using all of the tools at our disposal.
That includes targeted strikes by U.S. military aircrafts and drones using proper safeguards when there aren’t any other viable options to deal with continuing imminent threats.
All of this – stopping foreign fighters, blocking terrorist financing, doing battle in cyberspace – is vital to the war against ISIS but it also lays the foundation for defusing and defeating the next threat and the one after that.
Now, the third element of our strategy has to be hardening our defenses at home and helping our partners do the same against both external and homegrown threats.
After 9/11, the United States made a lot of progress breaking down bureaucratic barriers to allow for more and better information sharing among agencies responsible for keeping us safe.
We still have work to do on this front. But by comparison, Europe is way behind.
Today, European nations don’t even always alert each other when they turn away a suspected jihadist at the border or when a passport is stolen.
It seems like after most terrorist attacks, we find out that the perpetrators were known to some security service or another but too often the dots never get connected.
I appreciate how hard this is especially given the sheer number of suspects and threats. But this has to change.
…The United States and Europe to dramatically and immediately improve intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism coordination.
European countries also should have the flexibility to enhance their border controls when circumstances warrant.
And here at home, we face a number of our own challenges.
The threat to airline security is evolving as terrorists develop…non-metallic combs. So our defenses have to stay at least one step ahead.
We know that intelligence gathered and shared by local law enforcement officers is absolutely critical to breaking up plots and preventing attacks. So they need all the resources and support we can give them.
Law enforcement also needs the trust of residents and communities, including in our own country Muslim Americans.
Now, this should go without saying. But in the current climate, it bears repeating.
Muslim Americans are working everyday on the front lines of the fight against radicalization.
Another challenge is how to strike the right balance of protecting privacy and security.
Encryption of mobile communications presents a particularly tough problem.
We should take the concerns of law enforcement and counter-terrorism professionals seriously.
They have warned that impenetrable encryption may prevent them from accessing terrorist communications and preventing a future attack.
On the other hand, we know there are legitimate concerns about government intrusion, network security, and creating new vulnerabilities that bad actors can and would exploit.
So we need Silicon Valley not to view government as its adversary. We need to challenge our best minds in the private sector to work with our best minds in the public sector to develop solutions that will both keep us safe and protect our privacy.
Now is the time to solve this problem, not after the next attack.
Since Paris, no homeland security challenge is being more hotly debated than how to handle Syrian refugees seeking safety in the United States.
Our highest priority of course must always be protecting the American people. So yes, we do need to be vigilant in screening and vetting any refugees from Syria, guided by the best judgments of our security professionals in close coordination with our allies and partners.
And Congress needs to make sure that the necessary resources are provided for comprehensive background checks, drawing on the best intelligence we can get.
And we should be taking a close look at the safeguards in the visa programs as well. But we cannot allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and our humanitarian obligations.
Turning away orphans, applying a religious test, discriminating against Muslims, slamming the door on every Syrian refugee – that is just not who we are. We are better than that.
And remember, many of these refugees are fleeing the same terrorists who threaten us.
It would be a cruel irony indeed if ISIS can force families from their homes and then also prevent them from ever finding new ones.
We should be doing more to ease this humanitarian crisis, not less. We should lead the international community in organizing a donor conference and supporting countries like Jordan who are sheltering the majority of refugees fleeing Syria.
And we can get this right. America’s open, free, tolerant society, described by some as a vulnerability in the struggle against terrorism but I actually believe it’s one of our strengths.
It reduces the appeal of radicalism and enhances the richness and resilience of our communities. This is not a time for scoring political points.
When New York was attacked on 9/11, we had a Republican president, a Republican governor, and a Republican mayor, and I worked with all of them. We pulled together and put partisanship aside to rebuild our city and protect our country.
This is a time for American leadership. No other country can rally the world to defeat ISIS and win the generational struggle against radical jihadism. Only the United States can mobilize common action on a global scale and that’s exactly what we need. The entire world must be part of this fight but we must lead it.
There’s been a lot of talk lately about coalitions. Everyone seems to want one. But there’s not nearly as much talk about what it actually takes to make a coalition work.
In the heat and pressure of an international crisis, I know how hard this is because we’ve done it before.
To impose the toughest sanctions in history on Iran, to stop a dictator from slaughtering his people in Libya, to support a fledging democracy in Afghanistan, we have to use every pillar of American power – military and diplomacy, development and economic and cultural influence, technology, and maybe most importantly our values. That is smart power.
We have to work with institutions and partners like NATO, the EU, the Arab League and the UN, strengthen our alliances, and never get tired of old fashioned, shoe-leather diplomacy, and if necessary, be prepared to act decisively on our own, just as we did to bring Osama bin Laden to justice.
The United States and our allies must demonstrate that free people and free markets are still the hope of humanity.
This past week as I watched the tragic scenes from France, I kept thinking back to a young man the world met in January after the last attack in Paris.
His name was Lassana [Bathily], a Muslim immigrant from Mali, who worked at a kosher market. He said the market had become a new home and his colleagues and customers a second family.
When the terrorists arrived and the gunfire began, Lassana risked his life to protect his Jewish customers. He moved quickly, hiding as many people as he could in the cold storage room, and then slipping out to help the police.
“I didn’t know or care”, he said, “if they were Jews or Christians or Muslims. We’re all in the same boat.”
What a rebuke to the extremist hatred. The French government announced it would grant Lassana full citizenship. But when it mattered most he proved he was a citizen already.
That’s the power of free people. That’s what the jihadis will never understand and never defeat.
And as we meet here today, let us resolve that we will go forward together and we will do all we can to lead the world against this threat that threatens people everywhere.
Thank you all.
What we have done with the President saying there would be special forces sent is right in line with what I think. But they need to get there. We need to take stock of whether we need more, and we need to also empower our trainers in Iraq to have more support to do what they’re trying to accomplish by getting the Iraqi army once again to be a fighting force.
And we need – one thing that I believe we haven’t done yet is make it clear to Bagdad that we are going to be arming Sunni tribes and Kurds if they don’t because at some point they have to be in the fight.
The Kurds, as you know, are fighting bravely on both sides of the border, and they need the support that we’ve given them and some of the special ops work and the assault and taking back of Sinjar. And then these other two elements that I have mentioned.
We have pieces in place but I think we have to deepen and better coordinate not only within our own country and Europe but more broadly.
I think that from the perspective of what they had accomplished at that time even though they had seized and held territory, the major focus of our government was on trying to remove Assad from power so that there could be a resolution, a political resolution.
And there were so many groups fighting, there were so many other factors at work.
Now that ISIS has made clear that I think in part because they have been pushed hard by the airstrikes, by the Kurds, they’re now expanding their reach so that they can keep their propaganda going.
So I think there’s been, you know, an evolution in their threat and we have to meet it.
Look, I have made clear that I have difference as I think any two people do.
I was very proud to serve as President Obama’s Secretary of State. I think we made a good team. We largely agreed on what needed to be done to repair our alliances, to get our country in a position to deal with the wars that had been inherited and to take on some of the new challenges we faced.
But even when I was still there, which was publicly known, I thought we needed to do more earlier to try to identify indigenous Syrian fighters, so-called moderates, and I do think there were some early on that we could have done more to help them in their fight against Assad.
But this is an evolving and fast-moving situation. I think we’re all working to make sure that what we do will actually produce the results we seek.
I fully respect Bob and his knowledge about the difficulties of implementing a no-fly zone.
But if you look at where we are right now, we have to try to clear the air of the bombing attacks that are still being carried out to a limited extent by the Syrian military now supplemented by the Russian air force. And I think we have a chance to do that now.
We had a no-fly zone over northern Iraq for years to protect the Kurds, and it proved to be successful. Not easy; it never is.
But I think now is the time for us to re-visit those plans.
I also believe as I said in the speech that if we begin the conversation about the no-fly zone, something that Turkey discussed with me back when I was Secretary of State in 2012, it will confront a lot of our partners in the region and beyond about what they’re going to do and it can give us leverage in the discussions that Secretary Kerry is carrying on right now.
So I see it as both a strategic opportunity on the ground and an opportunity for leverage in the peace negotiations.
What can you do particularly to make these key Sunni states that seem more interested in fighting in Yemen where they are battling Shiite forces…what can you do to make them actually take this on as their struggle?
And you’re right. The Saudis were actually involved in Syria and now have put all of their resources against the Houthis and the Iranian backers of the Houthis in Yemen.
Now, what does that mean? Well, it means that they see the battle that they want to fight as one against Iran and its proxies.
My argument to them would be “Left untended, you could have Iranian reach from Tehran to Baghdad. If you allow Syria to fall into as terrible a distress as it currently is, and basically Assad being a proxy for, a frontman for the Iranians. The Russians are interested in their naval base, and so you will find a consolidation of authority with the Iranians and moving into Baghdad even more so. So what you’re facing in Yemen could be a limited preview of what you could face going forward unless we get some concerted effort to stop the fighting and to seek a political solution to the fighting that does give some room to all the different groups within Syria to have a say in the future.”
And if you look at Iraq, if you look at Libya, if you look at Yemen, if you look at the fragility of the Assad regime and what he has produced, isn’t he right?
As I mentioned in the speech, I spoke about the foundations of the region sinking into the sand just as the Arab Spring was breaking.
I did so not knowing about the Arab Spring coming to full bloom but because it was so clear that what was being done by dictatorships, by the denial of opportunity, by the repression, by the sectarian divide just could not stand. It was going to explode at some point or another.
And with the developments in Libya for example the Libyan people have voted twice in free and fair elections for the kind of leadership they want. They have not been able to figure out how to prevent the disruptions that they are confronted with because of internal divides and because of some of the external pressures that are coming from terrorist groups and others.
So I think it’s too soon to tell, and I think it’s something that we have to be looking at very closely.
Now, deposing Milosevic left problems but problems that we came at by having a deal.
In fact, my husband’s in Dayton today speaking about the Dayton Accord, where people who have been slaughtering each other had to come together and resolve to exist within a government together.
Is it perfect? No. But has it kind of kept going and do we have some work to do there? Absolutely.
So we have to look at all these different situations I think on their own as well as as part of bigger trends.
We’ve had, last I looked, more than two million refugees since 1990.
So far, we know that trying to vet and understand the connections that a person or a family might have with somebody in the United States, looking to see what organization – often a faith-based organization – will sponsor them and what they’ll do to help them get an education or a job is by far the best way to sort out and to determine who should be included.
Now, this is going to take a long time. I mean, really doing this is hard under any circumstances. Doing it when people are essentially stateless, they don’t necessarily have documents. It’s hard to do the vetting. It’s going to be challenging, which is again why I said in the speech that Congress should be providing resources for us to do it right not trying to stop it.
I just don’t believe it’s in keeping with our values or our history. And frankly, it doesn’t send the kind of message that we want to send to the rest of the world.
So we have to be careful and we have to be vigilant and we have to have a system that does all of that.
One, the final language of the treaty itself, which I don’t think went far enough to meet the test that I’ve always applied to any trade agreement. I have voted for them and I have voted against them when I was a Senator.
Does it help create more good-paying jobs in America? Does it raise incomes? Does it advance our national security?
And I think there are enough unanswered questions. It was an extraordinary effort to try to bring these countries together to come up with an agreement. But I think that at the end of the day for a number of reasons including that they couldn’t figure out how to get currency into the agreement and it’s an only aside agreement. I opposed it.
The other side of the coin though is we have been doing so little because of Republican opposition mostly to better train and prepare people who have been really either sidelined or whacked up against their head by globalization.
Globalization is real. It’s happening. It’s having an impact. We don’t have a good training program. We don’t have the kind of support that people need to be able to move into positions where they can acquire new skills. And I see those two things as going together because we have to first and foremost focus on how we better prepare more Americans to be competitive in the global economy, and I don’t think we’ve done that. I want to see that done alongside any trade agreement to a greater extent than the Republicans have been willing to support it.
And on the defense side, I think that certainly the United States working with France and then from that sort of hub beginning to reach out to other countries to seek out support. And I would go back to Arab countries as well.
So looking for a way to begin the discussions about the negotiations that lead to the coalition as quickly as possible.
You know, going back to Libya, the Europeans were the ones who wanted American support, and we did not agree to do so until we had a very clear idea what they were willing to do. And then we reached out and worked with the Arab League so that there would be Arab partners as well. And that took weeks. It wasn’t something that just happened overnight.
But it is definitely doable if we begin I think with the French-American position and move out from there.
When you recommend supporting additional training for Syrian rebel groups, would you advise them to allow them to fight Assad? Or is that part of the conflict that we don’t want to get involved in?
So that’s what we’ve recommended back in the first term.
Since then, I know it’s been a very difficult task for our government to take on and pursue successfully. But one of the challenges has been trying to draw lines and you draw lines because you want to be able to vet and follow what happens to the arms that you are equipping people with.
But what happened to some of the few groups that have been trained is that they were quickly overrun by much more hardened fighters who were fighting Assad.
So it was a very hard task to do two or three years later.
I think it might have been but again I’ve said many times I can’t predict sitting here what would have happened if we had moved earlier. It might have worked. It might not have worked. But you can’t really take Syrians who are rebelling against Assad and tell them they can’t use their training and their weapons against the person who as I said in my speech has killed far more Syrians that ISIS has today.
And that’s why I focused on ISIS. I mean, I think right now we have one overriding goal as I outlined.
We need to crush their territorial domain and we need to try to secure the entire border between Syria and Turkey.
There is not going to be a successful military effort at this point to overturn Assad. That can only happen through the political process.
So our effort should be focused on ISIS, and yes, there are other terrorist groups. Al Nusra, whom you mentioned, is a particularly lethal –
We need to get people to turn against the common enemy of ISIS and then we need to figure out how we put together a political outcome that provides enough autonomy so that the separate immunities within Syria will be able to recreate a Syrian state even though it probably is unlikely it will be controlled by the Alawites from Damascus the same way it was before the civil war started.
Look, as I said, we should be sending more special operators. We should be empowering our trainers in Iraq.
We should be leading an air coalition using both fighter planes and drones.
We have a lot of work to do to be able to really decimate ISIS in Iraq and in Syria.
But we’ve got to work with the Kurds on both sides of the border. We’ve got to figure out how to, if possible, have a second Arab awakening in Anbar province, get the Sunni tribes to feel it is their fight again as they once did. And that requires a lot of political pressure being put on Baghdad.
Injecting some large contingent of American forces complicates that, in my opinion.
Right now, we need to keep the pressure on the people on the ground and get them to change their priorities and work together.
And I would certainly expect to and hope to work with the Russians to be able to do that.
You know, the Russians have as you know been primarily focused on Assad’s enemies and not on ISIS. It think that has changed and there is an indication that has changed.
After Hollande comes here, he’s going to go to Moscow to see Putin. And as I said earlier, getting Russia to play a role in that and getting Assad to understand that what happens to him will be a result of a political resolution, which Secretary Kerry is undertaking right now.
But to have a swath of territory that could be a safe zone both for Syrians so they wouldn’t have to leave but also for humanitarian relief and I think it would give us this extra leverage that I’m looking for in the diplomatic pursuits with Russia with respect to the political outcome in Syria.
The Saudis are now engaged in the discussions that Secretary Kerry is leading. They’re in the same process as the Iranians, which is something that was hard to get to but finally achieved.
And I think that the Saudis have a multiple level of responsibilities. First and foremost, stopping their own citizens from continuing the financing for extremists. And you know, Saudi financing is still a major source of revenue for terrorist groups inside Syria, inside Iraq –
But I know that Saudi individuals have certainly funded other related terrorist groups over time and also exported a lot of Wahhabi radicalism by kicking or sending out imams and teachers to set up schools and mosques to preach that particularly harsh brand of Islam.
So the Saudis have a lot that they can do to both stop and then to help.
And that’s why I said, look, they are both legitimately concerned about a takeover in Yemen that butts up against their border and so that is why they are expending a lot of money and a lot of military resources trying to beat back the Houthis, trying to re-establish…a government. They’ve got a lot going on there.
But I would hope to draw them into a broader reading of what’s going on in the region. And you know, for a lot of people, the Sunni, Shiite sectarian divide is one of the major reasons for what’s happening there. It’s understandable but the Saudis need to have a broader view.
And looking at Iran’s influence inside Syria, their growing influence in Iraq as well as in Yemen and they need to understand they need to help us stabilize at least northern Syria to start with while trying to come up with some resolution of the civil war and I hope they will be more willing to be involved.
…Thank you very, very much. I am very conscious of the fact that I am all that stands between you and the kick-off of the Patriots game. But it is wonderful to be here.
And I want to thank everyone who has worked so hard to build this party and the campaign from the bottom up all over this state.
I am so honored to have the support of your terrific Senator Jeanne Shaheen and your amazing governor and your next Senator Maggie Hassan. They inspire me everyday with their leadership.
And I also want to thank Congresswoman [Ann] Kuster and Carol Shea-Porter for your support and all of the Senators, representatives, executive councillors, local leaders, grassroots organizers, volunteers, who are doing so much across this state.
With your help we are going to elect Democrats up and down the ballot next year.
Now, some of you know New Hampshire’s always been a special place for me and my family. You have fought for me and now I’m fighting for you.
Since the start of this campaign, I’ve heard the worries that keep New Hampshire families up at night and I’ve heard the hopes and the dreams that get you up every morning.
The stress you feel when the bills pile up just walking to the mailbox can sometimes seem like an act of courage.
But also the pride of finally getting that better job, feeling secure enough to put a little more away for your retirement.
You have shared with me the feelings that you have when you’re caring for an aging parent or a child suffering from substance abuse or a loved one with a mental illness.
I listened to your stories and am humbled by the courage and resilience. It can take all the strength you have, especially if you’re already under pressure at work and there isn’t anyone to lean on at home.
I know we can do better.
Just like you found a way to make it work in the worst of the recession – taking a second job, working an extra shift, putting away a little extra money when you could – we’re going to make this recovery work for you.
We’re going to make our economy and our country work for everyone, not just those at the top.
We’re not going to do it by making promises we can’t keep. We’re going to do it the way we’ve always done it before – rolling up our sleeves and getting the job done together.
Let’s start with where we are. Thanks to the hard work and determination of the American people, we’ve come back from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
And I want to ask you to remember the mess President Obama inherited. I want you to remember the facts. Our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
This is evidence that our Republican friends would prefer we forget and they would do everything they can to try to impose a state of collective amnesia upon us.
But I’m not going to let them forget.
In the last 35 years, we’ve had five presidents – three Republicans and two Democrats.
I happen to know both those Democrats. And each of them inherited economic problems from their Republican predecessor.
In my husband’s case, it was a recession and the fact that the debt of the United States had been quadrupled in the prior 12 years.
I remember Bill telling me shortly after the election “It’s so much worse than they told us.”
He was asked one time “What did you bring to the White House from Arkansas?” And he paused and he thought and he said, “Well, arithmetic, I guess.”
And he got to work. Eight years later, we had 23 million new jobs and incomes rose for everybody, not just those at the top but people in the middle, working people, and poor people all saw their incomes go up.
And we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus.
But you would think that might have given the Republicans an idea about how to run the economy. But instead, they went right back to trickle down economics – cutting taxes on the wealthy, getting out of the way of corporations, and we know what happened.
Shortly after the ’08 elections, President-elect Obama called and asked me if I’d come to see him in Chicago. I didn’t know why. I turned out he wanted to ask me to be Secretary of State. But before we got talking about that, he said to me “It is so much worse than they told us.” I said, “I’ve heard that before.”
But it was. We were on a brink of a Great Depression. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
Before the president turned it around, 9 million Americans had lost their jobs, 5 million homes lost to foreclosure, $13 trillion in family wealth disappeared.
Now, I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for saving the economy from the Republican that he inherited.
But we’re still not running the way America should. Paychecks for most people have barely budged. But corporate profits and CEO pay are at near record highs.
And something is very wrong when the top 25 hedge fund managers make more in a year than all of the kindergarten teachers in America combined.
Now, I know there are big changes in our economy that didn’t start with the Great Recession and they won’t end with the recovery.
And many Americans are finding it harder and harder to get ahead. There are still too many barriers to opportunity, too much talent that sits on the sidelines – costs that hit hardworking families like prescription drugs, child care, and college tuition are all rising faster than incomes.
That’s why in this campaign, I’m fighting for an economy where nothing holds you back and everyone who works hard can get ahead again.
Opportunity should be as universal as talent because America can only live up to our potential when every person can live up to his or hers.
Let me tell you about the America we’re fighting for together. It’s an America that creates the good-paying jobs of the future where wages rise faster than costs.
Today in Boston, I laid out a plan to help put Americans to work repairing our roads and bridges and tunnels and all of the airports and the ports and the rail systems. Building that economy for the future.
I was very proud to be endorsed by Mayor Walsh and have so many of the construction trade unions that have endorsed me there because they know I’m going to put them back to work.
We will establish a national infrastructure bank to get more public and private investment flowing and not just bricks and mortars as important as those are.
By 2020, I want 100% of American households who have access to quality affordable high speed Internet no matter where they live.
We also have to set some big goals for clean energy and for scientific research.
I’ve said let’s install a half a billion solar panels in four years and enough renewable energy to power every home in the next 10 years and to get paychecks growing we must raise the minimum wage so that it no longer is a poverty wage.
Now, you know the Republicans don’t favor that. You’ve heard them. They’ve been criss-crossing New Hampshire day in and day out.
And so far as I can tell not one of them believes in raising the minimum wage.
Now, here’s what I don’t understand about this. I think it’s really unfair when people work full time and particularly since two-thirds of minimum wage workers are women work full time and can’t get themselves out of poverty.
But it’s also shortsighted. We are a 70% consumption economy. You raise the minimum wage. We know that then puts upward pressure on additional wages. That means more customers for New Hampshire businesses. It means more financial security for New Hampshire families. It actually helps to spur the recovery.
So ask the Republicans next time you see them going through town “What is it you don’t like about raising the minimum wage to help people get ahead and to help our economy do better?”
And you know, I’m almost embarrassed saying this. It is November of 2015 after all. But it is time to finally guarantee equal pay for women.
Now, again, this is another one of those issues that the Republicans just don’t believe they should be for. I don’t get this either because when you shortchange women you shortchange families you shortchange the economy.
So the next time they come through one of the towns in New Hampshire, you see them on the street, stop them and ask them why don’t they believe in equal pay for equal work for women?
And we have to make it easier for small businesses to get the loans they need to grow and hire, not just the corporations who can afford the lawyers and the lobbyists to get the loans they want in order to grow even bigger than they are.
And we have to close the loopholes that let corporations ship jobs and profits overseas and instead reward businesses that invest right here in America, training new workers, sharing profits with their employees instead of bigger bonuses for CEOs. If it works for Market Basket here in New England, it can work for America.
Now, so far as I know I’m the only candidate in this race who has pledged to raise your wages not your taxes.
I think those at the top should pay more and you should pay less.
So I have proposed tax cuts to help middle class families pay for college, pay for health care, and pay to care for an elderly parent.
And I will oppose any plan or proposal that takes more money out of your paychecks.
We’re fighting for an America where everyone who works hard has a ladder of opportunity and that starts with high quality pre-school available for every family in this country.
All of our kids deserve the best start in life. It also means getting back to what works in K-12 education and supporting our teachers not scapegoating them.
It means making college affordable for everyone. You should not have to borrow a dime to pay tuition at a public college or university and everyone should be able to refinance their student debt just like they can refinance a mortgage or a car loan.
But when it comes to affordable college, I will not spend your tax dollars paying for Donald Trump’s kids or any other millionaire’s or billionaire’s kids to go to college. That is not a good investment. That is not smart. I want to help middle class, working class, poor kids get the chance to go to college again instead of being priced out.
And I believe a true ladder of opportunity has to include life-long learning, job training, and apprenticeships. Today in Boston, I talked about apprenticeships because I think it’s one of the best ways to help prepare not only young people but people returning to the work force for the jobs that we’re going to have.
I also believe that middle class jobs should lead to a secure retirement that you can count on and I will fight to protect Social Security and expand it for those who need it most especially elderly women, widows and people who’ve spent years caring for others without getting paid.
The caregivers of America deserve security just like everyone else.
Now, we’re also fighting for an America that leads the world with strength and smarts, keeping our people safe and defeating the terrorist networks that threaten us.
We have to use every pillar of American power to get more allies and partners off the sidelines to go after ISIS in the air, on the ground, and in cyberspace.
But we cannot give into the fear mongers who say that we’re at war with Islam or that we should put every Muslim in America in a government database. That’s not who we are and besides that is not smart law enforcement techniques for us finding out the information we need to keep us safe in the first place.
Look, the fact is no other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21st century. I happen to think America already is great. We just have to make it greater by working together and solving our problems again.
In this election, you aren’t just choosing a president. You’re choosing a commander-in-chief. And I promise you this: I will get up every single day and do whatever it takes to make sure our country is safe and strong.
I take this very personally. I was a Senator from New York on 9/11.
I spent years working with the victims of that horrific attack, working with the few survivors who were so grievously injured, working with the first responders and the construction workers who ran toward the pile and stayed there for months, ending up sick themselves.
So I take a backseat to no one when I tell you I will do whatever is necessary to protect us. But I will also do it in a way that furthers and promotes our values and makes it absolutely clear that this country of ours will continue to lead the world not only in the dangerous spots but in pursuit of the opportunities that will make us even greater in the future.
Now, we’re also fighting for an America where we lift each other up and we have each other’s backs.
This is American where we support families, neighborhoods, and communities because when families are strong our country is strong, where more young people seize the opportunity and responsibility of national service. And when they do, we’ll make sure that they can go to college absolutely debt free.
Where immigrant families can stay together and have a real path to citizenship not get ripped apart by deportation.
Where we end discrimination against LGBT Americans once and for all. It’s just wrong. It’s wrong in many places in our country you can be married on Saturday but fired on Monday for who you are and who you love. And that has to change.
The kind of America that I’m working toward will be one where people struggling with heroin, prescription drugs, and other substance abuse get the treatment they need and end up in recovery not in prison.
An America where we rebuild trust and respect between law enforcement and the communities they serve and work hopefully in a bipartisan way for criminal justice reform and to end the era of mass incarceration.
And it’s an America where we finally together stand up to the gun lobby.
As you know, on Friday, there was another mass shooting this time in Colorado. Our condolences and prayers are with the families of the victims.
And we think particularly of that brave, young police officer who rushed toward danger to protect others.
How many more Americans need to die before we take action?
Common sense steps like comprehensive background checks, closing the loopholes that let guns fall into the wrong hands even people on the terrorist watch list.
This is truly unbelievable that after what we’ve seen in Paris and other places the Republicans will not bring up a bill that will prohibit anyone on the no-fly list from buying a gun in America.
If you are too dangerous to fly in America, you are too dangerous to buy a gun in America.
And we must get rid of the special immunity Congress gave the gun industry. That was a mistake plain and simple and we need to reverse it.
The shooting on Friday was at, as you know, a Planned Parenthood clinic – a place where lots of women get health care need – breast exams, STD testing, contraception, and yes, safe and legal abortions. We should be supporting Planned Parenthood, not attacking it.
And it is way past time for us to protect women’s health and respect women’s rights, not use them as political footballs.
Here in New Hampshire, Republicans on your Executive Council cut off funding to Planned Parenthood.
And in Congress and on the campaign trail, Republicans who claim they just hate big government are only too happy to have government step in when it comes to women’s bodies and health.
It’s wrong, and we’re not going to stand for it.
I know when I talk like this some people, especially of the Republican persuasion, say I’m playing the gender card.
Well, if talking about women’s health, equal pay, paid family leave, and affordable child care is playing the gender card, deal me in.
Now, my fellow Democrats for too long Republicans have stacked the deck for those at the top, pushing an out-of-touch, out-of-date agenda that failed us and will rip away all the progress we’ve made. You know what they’ll do. They’re telling you what they’ll do.
It’s been my experience hanging around politics for a few years when people tell you what they intend to do, take them at their word. Don’t act surprised when they then try to do it.
So you know what they’ll do.
They’ll give more tax cuts to the super wealthy. They’ll let powerful interests write their own rules – the gun lobby, pharmaceutical companies, big banks, and polluters. That’s who they’re fighting for.
Republicans have voted nearly 60 times to repeal or weaken the Affordable Care Act.
Earlier this month, I met a woman named Amy in Windham. Four years ago, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. She’s gone through 16 rounds of chemo, radiation, surgery. Thankfully she had good health insurance.
But if the Affordable Care Act is scrapped, which a Republican president and a Republican Congress will do, insurance companies will be able to go back to discriminating against pre-existing conditions and people like Amy could be left to fend for themselves.
She’s fearless when it comes to cancer but she told me how scared she is about losing her insurance.
Yes, we have a lot of work to do to bring down costs and improve quality of health care in our country but we are not – we are not – going back. We can’t go back to where women were charged more than men.
So yes, we’ll improve quality of health care. I want to bring down out of pocket expenses. I want to tackle the rising of costs of prescription drugs.
But I will not give in to those who think we should rip up the Affordable Care Act and throw our country back into a contentious debate where the insurance companies and the drug companies are likely to call the shots again.
This is not going to be easy but when it comes to prescription drugs, just know a few things because already the drug companies are saying that, you know, I’m going to prevent them from doing research that will save lives. Well, ask them why they spend more money advertising drugs than doing research. Ask them why the American taxpayer pays for the NIH to help them with the research, pays for the FDA to test whether a drug is safe and effective, and then we pay the highest prices in the world for the very same drugs.
We’re going to make sure Medicare can negotiate for lower prices just like it happens in Canada, in Europe, and everywhere else in the advanced economies.
So, I don’t want to tell you that any of this will be easy. I know it won’t be.
I still have the scars from health care reform back in the early ‘90s. But I didn’t quit. I got up and we finally got the children’s health insurance program passed.
So we have to work together. You should expect all of us who are running for president – all of us – to actually explain how we’re going to accomplish what we say we will do.
Now, some candidates may be running to make a point. I’m running to make a difference – a real difference for you and your families across our country.
There is a lot we can do to break the gridlock and dysfunction.
We can fight back against the war on voting in this country. Instead of making it harder to vote, as Republicans are doing, we should be making it easier with early voting everywhere and automatic universal registration for everyone who turns 18 unless they opt out.
And we can’t let Republicans and their donors keep rigging our elections with secret unaccountable money. We need to amplify the voices of everyday Americans with robust public financing and we need a Supreme Court that protects the right of every citizen to vote, not the right of every corporation to buy elections.
And I will tell you this. I will tell you this. Even if it takes a constitutional amendment, we will overturn Citizens United.
You know, from my very first job going door to door for the Children’s Defense Fund and more than 30 years of fighting for kids and women, families and our country, I’ve learned how to make progress. Start with our values. What we’ve learned from our families, our faith, our country that has to be our guide. Then sit down and really listen to people, try to understand the problems that may hold them back and the anxieties that weigh them down. Bring people together to find smart solutions guided by evidence, not ideology. Then work like crazy to get results.
We have to know when to stand our ground, when to find common ground. That’s the way I worked with Republicans and Democrats to reform our foster care and adoption system, extend health care benefits to National Guard and Reserve, provide 9/11 first responders with the health care they needed, create that children’s health insurance program. That’s how I helped round up votes in a divided Senate to pass a landmark treaty with Russia that reduced the number of nuclear weapons that could threaten our country.
Most of all though we’re only going to make progress if we remember that everybody has a role to play in lifting up our country.
There’s nothing wrong with America that can’t be cured by what’s right with America.
And I know it is unusual – it is unusual for a candidate for president, especially in these divisive times to say we need more love and kindness but that’s exactly what we need in America right now.
So please, as we go through this election, let’s think about ways we could look out for one another, try to walk in each other’s shoes, make sure no one in America feels left out or left behind.
I’m running for president for all Americans, for the struggling, the striving, and the successful because everybody can contribute to make our country even better.
For the family in Keane keeping a 100-year-old furniture business going and growing, the students I met at Exeter who dreamed of starting their own small businesses someday. I’m running for the veterans I sat with in Deering who served our country with honor and courage. For Keith, the librarian from Brookline, whose mother has Alzheimer’s and he can’t afford a full-time caretaker so he brings her to work with him and doesn’t know where else to turn.
I’m running for the young man who told me he got his first real job at 17 as a cashier at the store where his mother worked. She’d been there for years and when he brought home his first paycheck and showed her, he saw his mom’s face fall and asked her “What’s wrong?” She looked up and said, “I’ll tell you what’s wrong. You’re making more an hour having just started than I’m making having worked there four years.”
I’m running for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refused to be counted out. That’s a lesson my mother taught me a long time ago and that’s the lesson I intend to teach my daughter and my granddaughter as long as I’m able.
…You deserve a president who will listen to you, fight for you, and deliver for you.
And if we do this together, we’re going to build that America that we all desperately want to see again where our success if measured by how many people work their way into the middle class not how many CEO get bonuses.
I’m the granddaughter of a factory worker from Scranton, Pennsylvania, and I’m now the grandmother of a wonderful little girl that we had the pleasure of being with over Thanksgiving. Bill and I will do everything we can to ensure she has every opportunity to succeed. But I don’t think you should have to be the granddaughter of a former president to share in the promise of America.
The granddaughters and the grandsons of factory workers and teachers and firefighters and truck drivers should have that chance too.
So let’s get together. Let’s run a campaign. Let’s win. Let’s build an America where there are no ceilings for anyone. Let’s make it happen.
Thank you all so much!

…You know, over the past several months I have listened to the problems that keep American families up at night. Now, most people don’t expect life to be easy but they want more security, a good-paying job that lets you afford a middle-class lifestyle, health care you can count on, a little bit put away for your retirement. Being secure also means being safe – safe at home, at school, at work.
And today, I want to talk about how we keep our country safe from a threat that’s on everyone’s minds – the threat of terrorism. But I want to begin by saying we cannot give into fear. We can’t let it stop us from doing what is right and necessary to make us safe and doing it in a way that’s consistent with our values.
We cannot let fear push us into reckless actions that end up making us less safe.
Americans are going to have to act with both courage and clarity.
Now, as we all know, on Dec. 2nd, two shooters killed 14 people at a holiday party in San Bernardino, California.
Sadly in America in 2015, turning on the news and hearing about a mass shooting is not unusual.
But this one turned out to be different because these killers were a husband and wife inspired by ISIS.
Americans have experienced terrorism before. On 9/11, we learned that terrorists in Afghanistan could strike our homeland. From Fort Hood to Chattanooga to the Boston Marathon, we saw people radicalized here carry out deadly attacks.
But San Bernardino felt different. Maybe it was the timing coming so soon after the Paris attacks. Maybe it was how random it seemed – a terrorist attack in a suburban office park, not a high-profile target or symbol of American power.
It made us all feel it could have been anywhere at any time. The phrase active shooter should not be one we have to teach our children. But it is.
And now we are all grappling with what this means for our future, for our safety, our sense of well-being and our trust and connections with our neighbors.
We want to be open-hearted and we want to celebrate America’s diversity, not fear it.
And while we know the overwhelming majority of people here and around the world hate ISIS and love peace, we do have to be prepared for more terrorists plotting attacks.
Just yesterday, a man in Maryland was charged with receiving thousands of dollars from ISIS for use in planning an attack.
And here in Minnesota, authorities have charged 10 men with conspiring to provide material support to ISIS.
But in the Twin Cities, you have also seen firsthand how communities come together to resist radicalization. Local imams condemning terrorist violence. Local artists and activists pushing back against terrorist propaganda.
I just met with a group of community leaders who told me about some the work and the challenges that they are dealing with.
As the first Somali-American police sergeant in Minnesota and probably in the country said recently, safety is a shared responsibility so we have to work together.
The threat we face is daunting. But America has overcome big challenges many times before.
Throughout our history, we’ve stared into the face of evil and refused to blink. We beat fascism, won the Cold War, brought Osama bin Laden to justice. So no one should ever underestimate the determination of the American people. And I’m confident we will once again choose resolve over fear.

And we will defeat these new enemies just as we have defeated those who have threatened us in the past. Because it is not enough to contain ISIS, we must defeat ISIS, break its momentum and then its back, and not just ISIS but the broader radical jihadist movement that also includes Al Qaeda and offshoots like Al Shabaab in Somalia.
Now waging and winning this fight will require serious leadership. But unfortunately, our political debate has been anything but serious.
We can’t afford another major ground war in the Middle East. That’s exactly what ISIS wants from us. Shallow slogans don’t add up to a strategy.
Promising to carpet bomb until the desert glows doesn’t make you sound strong, it makes you sound like you’re in over your head.
Bluster and bigotry are not credentials for becoming commander in chief and it is hard to take seriously Senators who talk tough but then hold up key national security nominations, including the top official at the Treasury Department responsible for disrupting terrorist financing.
Everyday that’s wasted on partisan gridlock could put Americans in danger. So yes, we need a serious discussion and that’s why in a speech last month before the Council on Foreign Relations, I laid out a three-part plan to defeat ISIS and the broader extremist movement.
One, defeat ISIS in the Middle East by smashing its stronghold, hitting its fighters, leaders, and infrastructure from the air and intensifying support for local forces who can pursue them on the ground.
Second, defeat them around the world by dismantling the global network of terror that supplies radical jihadists with money, arms, propaganda and fighters.
And third, defeat them here at home by foiling plots, disrupting radicalization, and hardening our defenses.
Now, these three lines of efforts reinforce one another so we need to pursue them all at once using every pillar of American power. It will require skillful diplomacy to continue Secretary Kerry’s efforts to encourage political reconciliation in Iraq and political transition in Syria, enabling more Sunni Arabs and Kurdish fighters to take on ISIS on both sides of the border and to get our Arab and Turkish partners to actually step up and do their part.
It will require more U.S. and allied air power and a broader target set for strikes by planes and drones with proper safeguards.
It will require special operations units to advise and train local forces and conduct key counter-terrorism missions.
What it will not require is tens of thousands of American combat troops. That is not the right action for us to take in this situation.
So there is a lot to do.
And today, I want to focus on the third part of my plan – how we defend our country and prevent radicalization here at home.
We need a comprehensive strategy to counter each step in the process that can lead to an attack like the one in San Bernardino.
First, we have to shut down ISIS recruitment in the United States, especially online.
Second, stop would-be jihadists from getting training overseas and stop foreign terrorists from coming here.

Third, discover and disrupt plots before they can be carried out.
Fourth, support law enforcement officers who risk their lives to prevent and respond to attacks.
And fifth, empower our Muslim American communities who are on the frontlines of the fight against radicalization.
This is a 360 degree strategy to keep America safe and I want to walk through each of the elements from recruitment to training to planning to execution.
First, shutting down recruitment. We have to stop jihadists from radicalizing new recruits in person and through social media, chat rooms, and what’s called the dark web.
To do that, we need stronger relationships between Washington, Silicon Valley, and all of our great tech companies and entrepreneurs.
American innovation is a powerful force and we have to put it to work defeating ISIS. That starts with understanding where and how recruitment happens.
Our security officials need to more effectively track and analyze ISIS’s social media posts and map jihadist networks, and they need help from the tech community.
Companies should re-double their efforts to maintain and enforce their own service agreements and other necessary policies to police their networks, identifying extremist content, and removing it.
Now, many are already doing this and sharing those best practices more widely is important.
At the State Department, I started an inter-agency center to combat violent jihadist messages to have a better way to communicate on behalf of our values and to give young people drawn to these messages an alternative narrative.
We recruited specialists fluent in Arabic, Urdu, and Somali to wage online battles with extremists to counter their propaganda.
Now, these efforts have not kept pace with the threat so we need to step up our game in partnership with the private sector and credible moderate voices outside government.
But that’s just some of what we have to do.
Experts from the FBI, the intelligence community, homeland security, DOD, the State Department, and the technology industry should work together to develop a unified national strategy to defeat ISIS in cyberspace, using all of our capabilities to deny jihadists virtual territory just as we work to deny them actual territory.
And at the same time, we have to do more to address the challenge of radicalization whatever form it takes.
It’s imperative that the Saudis, the Qataris, the Kuwaitis, and others stop their citizens from supporting radical schools, madrassas, and mosques around the world once and for all and that should be the top priority in all of our discussions with these countries.
Now, second, we have to prevent ISIS recruits from training abroad and prevent foreign jihadists from coming here.
Most urgent is stemming the flow of fighters from Europe and America to Iraq and Syria and then back home again.
The United States and our allies need to know the identities of every fighter who makes that trip and then share information with each other in real time.
Right now, European nations don’t always alert each other when they turn away a suspected extremist at the border or when a passport is stolen. They have to dramatically improve intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism cooperation, and we’re ready to help them do that.
We also need to take down the network of enablers who help jihadists finance and facilitate their travel, forge documents, and evade detection.

And the United States and our allies should commit to revoke the passports and visas of jihadists who have gone to join ISIS or other groups and bring the full force of the law against them.
As I have said before, the United States has to take a close look at our visa programs and I am glad the administration and Congress are stepping up scrutiny in the wake of San Bernardino and that should include scrutinizing applicants’ social media postings.
We also should dispatch more homeland security agents to high risk countries to better investigate visa applicants.
For many years, America has waived visa requirements for travelers from countries with reliable security procedures, including key allies in Europe and Asia. That makes sense. But we also have to be smart.
Except for limited exception like diplomats and aid workers, anyone who has traveled in the past five years to a country facing serious problems with terrorism and foreign fighters should have to go through a full visa investigation no matter where they’re from.
We also have to be vigilant in screening and vetting refugees from Syria guided by the best judgment of our security and diplomatic professionals. Rigorous vetting already takes place while refugees are still overseas, and it’s a process that historically takes 18 to 24 months.
But Congress needs to provide enough resources to ensure we have sufficient personnel deployed to run the most thorough possible process.
And just as importantly, we cannot allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and our humanitarian obligations.
Turning away orphans, applying a religious test that discriminates against Muslims, slamming the door on every single Syrian refugee, that is not who we are as Americans. We are better than that.
It would be a cruel irony indeed if ISIS can force families from their homes and then also prevent them from finding new ones. So after rigorous screening, we should welcome families fleeing Syria just as the Twin Cities and this state have welcomed previous generations of refugees, exiles, and immigrants.
Of course, the key is to prevent terrorists also from exploiting our compassion and endangering our security but we can do this and I think we must.
Third, we have to discover and disrupt jihadist plots before they can be carried out. This is going to take better intelligence, collection, analysis and sharing.
I’ve proposed an intelligence surge against ISIS that includes more operations officers and linguists, enhancing our technical surveillance of overseas targets, intercepting terrorists communications, flying more reconnaissance missions to track terrorists movements, and developing even closer partnerships with other intelligence services.
President Obama recently signed the USA Freedom Act, which was passed by a bipartisan majority in Congress. It protects civil liberties while maintaining capabilities that our intelligence and law enforcement agencies need to keep us safe.
However, the new law is now under attack from presidential candidates on the left and right.

Some would strip away crucial counter-terrorism tools even with appropriate judicial and congressional oversight. And others seem eager to go back to discredited practices of the past. I don’t think we can afford to let either view prevail.
Now, encryption of mobile devices and communications does present a particularly tough problem with important implications for security and civil liberties.
Law enforcement and counter-terrorism professionals warn that impenetrable encryption may make it harder for them to investigate plots and prevent future attacks.
On the other hand there are very legitimate worries about privacy, network security, and creating new vulnerabilities that bad actors can exploit.
I know there’s no magic fix to this dilemma that will satisfy all these concerns but we can’t just throw up our hands. The tech community and the government have to stop seeing each other as adversaries and start working together to keep us safe from terrorists.
And even as we make sure law enforcement officials get the tools they need to prevent attacks, it’s essential that we also make sure jihadists don’t get the tools they need to carry out attacks.
It defies common sense that Republicans in Congress refuse to make it harder for potential terrorists to buy guns.
If you are too dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun period. And we should insist on comprehensive background checks and close loopholes that allow potential terrorists to buy weapons online or at gun shows.
And I think it’s time to restore the ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines.
I know that this will drive some of our Republican friends a little crazy. You’ll probably hear it tonight. They will say that guns are a totally separate issue, nothing to do with terrorism.
Well, I have news for them. Terrorists use guns to kill Americans, and I think we should make it a lot harder for them to do that ever again.
And there’s a question they should be asked – why don’t the Republican candidates want to do that?
You see, I have this old fashioned idea that we elect a president in part – in large part to keep us safe from terrorists, from gun violence, from whatever threatens our families and communities and I’m not going to let the gun lobby or anyone else tell me that’s not the right path for us to go down.
Now, the fourth element in my strategy is supporting law enforcement officers  who risk their lives to prevent and respond to terrorist attacks.
In San Bernardino, city, county, state, and federal authorities acted with speed and courage to prevent even more loss of life.
Detective Jorge Lozano, a 15-year police veteran, assured terrified civilians “I’ll take a bullet before you do”.
There is no limit to the gratitude we owe to law enforcement professionals like that detective who run toward danger to try to save lives. And not just in the immediate wake of an attack, our police, firefighters, and emergency responders will keep putting their lives on the line long after the cameras move on.
It’s really disgraceful that Congress has thus far failed to keep faith with first responders suffering from the lasting health effects of 9/11.

Many of them were men and women I was so proud to represent as a Senator from New York. The Zadroga 9/11 Health Act never should have been allowed to lapse.
It looks like Majority Leader McConnell may have finally dropped his opposition, and I hope the American people will hold him to that and we will continue to honor the service and sacrifice of those who responded to the worst terrorist attack in our history.
We have to make sure that local law enforcement has the resources and training they need to keep us safe, and they should be more closely synched up with national counter-terrorism experts, including with better use of fusion centers that serve as clearing houses for intelligence and coordination.
And we need to strengthen our defenses and our resilience wherever we are vulnerable whether it’s soft targets like shopping malls or higher profile targets like airports, railways, or power plants.
We have to build on the progress of the Obama administration in locking down loose nuclear materials and other WMD so they never fall into the hands of terrorists who seek them actively around the world.
So we should be providing the Department of Homeland Security with the resources it needs to stay one step ahead, not trying to privatize key functions like TSA as some Republicans have proposed.
And it’s important for us to recognize that when we talk about law enforcement we have made progress in being sure that our federal authorities share information with our state and local authorities. But that was an issue I tackled after 9/11 and we have to stay really vigilant so that information is in the hands where it needs to be.
Now finally, the fifth element of the strategy is empowering Muslim American communities who are on the frontlines in the fight against radicalization.
There are millions of peace-loving American Muslims living, working, raising families, paying taxes in our country.
These Americans may be our first, last, and best defense against homegrown radicalization and terrorism. They are the most likely to recognize the insidious effects of radicalization before it’s too late, intervene to help set a young person straight. They are best positioned to block anything going forward.
That’s why law enforcement has worked so hard since 9/11 to build up trust and strong relationships within Muslim American communities.
Here in the Twin Cities you have an innovative partnership that brings together parents, teachers, imams and others in the Somali-American community with law enforcement, non-profits, local businesses, mental health professionals and others to intervene with young people who are at risk. It’s called the Building Community Resilience Pilot Program, and it deserves increased support. It has not gotten the financial resources that it needs to do everything the people involved in it know they can do and we’ve got to do a better job of supporting it.
Now, I know that like many places across the country there’s more work to do to increase trust between communities in law enforcement.
Just last month, I know here a young African-American man was fatally shot by a police officer and I understand and investigation is underway.
Whatever the outcome, tragedies like this raise hard questions about racial justice in America and put at risk efforts to build the community relationships that help keep us safe from crime and from terrorism.
When people see that respect and trust are two-way streets, they’re more likely to work hand in hand with law enforcement.

One of the mothers of the 10 men recently charged with conspiring with terrorists said “We have to stop the denial”. She told other parents that. “We have to talk to our kids and work with the FBI”. That’s a message we need to hear from leaders within Muslim American communities across our country.
But we also want to highlight the successes in Muslim American communities and there are so many of them.
I just met with the first Somali-American council member of the city council here and he was proudly telling me how much change Somali immigrants – now Muslim Americans – have made in parts of the city and in neighborhoods that have been pretty much hallowed out.
Let’s look at the successes. If we’re going to fully integrate everyone into America, then we need to be seeing all their contributions too. And that is one of the many reasons why we must all stand up against offensive, inflammatory, hateful anti-Muslim rhetoric.
Not only do these comments cut against everything we stand for as Americans, they are also dangerous.
As the director of the FBI told Congress recently, “Anything that erodes trust with Muslim Americans makes the job of law enforcement more difficult.”
We need every community invested in this fight, not alienated and sitting on the sidelines.
One of the community leaders I met with told me that a lot of the children in the community are now afraid to go to school. They’re not only afraid of being perceived as a threat, they are afraid of being threatened because of who they are.
This is such an open-hearted and generous community. I hope there will be even more efforts, perhaps under the aegis of the university and certainly Gov. Dayton and others, to bring people together to reassure members of the community, particularly children and teenagers that they are welcomed, invited, and valued here in this city and state.
Now, Donald Trump’s proposal to ban all Muslims from entering the United States has rightly sparked outrage across our country and around the world.
Even some of the other Republican candidates are saying he’s gone too far. But the truth is many of those same candidates have also said disgraceful things about Muslims and this kind of divisive rhetoric actually plays into the hands of terrorists. It alienates partners and undermines moderates we need around the world in this fight against ISIS.
You know, you hear a lot of talk from some of the other candidates about coalitions. Everyone seems to want one. But there’s not nearly as much talk about what it actually takes to build a coalition and make it work.
I know how hard this is because I’ve done it and I can tell you insulting potential allies doesn’t make it any easier.
And demonizing Muslims also feeds a narrative that jihadists use to recruit new followers around the world that the United States is at war with Islam.
As both the Pentagon and the FBI have said in the past week, we cannot in any way lend credence to that twisted idea.

This is not a clash of civilizations. This is a clash between civilization and barbarism and that’s how it must be seen and fought.
Some will tell you that our open society is a vulnerability in the struggle against terrorism. I disagree. I believe our tolerance and diversity are at the core of our strength.
At a naturalization ceremony for new citizens today in Washington, President Obama noted the tension throughout our history between welcoming or rejecting the stranger. It is, he said, about the meaning of America what kind of country do we want to be and it’s about the capacity of each generation to honor the creed as old as our founding e pluribus unum – out of many we are one.
President Obama is right and it matters.
It’s no coincidence that American Muslims have long been better integrated and less susceptible to radicalization than Muslims in less welcoming nations, and we cannot give in to demagogues who play on our basest instincts. We must instead relied on the principles written in to our American DNA – freedom, equality, opportunity.
America is strongest when all our people believe they have a stake in our country and our future, no matter where they’re from, what they look like, how they worship or who they love.
Our country was founded by people fleeing religious persecution.
As George Washington puts it, “The United States gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance.”
So to all our Muslim American brothers and sisters, this is your country too and I am proud to be your fellow American.
And I want to remind us, particularly our Republican friends, that George W. Bush was right. Six days after 9/11, he went to a Muslim community center and here’s what he said, “Those who feel like they can intimidate our fellow citizens to take out their anger don’t represent the best of America; they represent the worst of humankind and they should be ashamed of that kind of behavior.”
So, if you want to see the best of America, you need look no further than Army Captain Humayun Khan. He was born in the United Arab Emirates. He moved to Maryland as a small child. He later graduated from the University of Virginia before enlisting in the United States Army.
In June 2004, he was serving in Iraq. One day while his infantry unit was guarding the gates of their gate, a suspicious vehicle appeared. Captain Khan told his troops to get back. But he went forward. He took 10 steps towards the car before it exploded. Captain Khan was killed but his unit was saved by his courageous act.
Captain Khan was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star and Purple Heart. He was just 27 years old.
“We still wonder what made him take those 10 steps,” Khan’s father said in a recent interview. “Maybe that’s the point,” he went on. “Where all the values, all the service to country, all the things he learned in this country kicked in. It was those values that made him take those 10 steps.”
“Those 10 steps told us we did not make a mistake in moving to this country,” his father finished.
As hard as this is, it is time to move from fear to resolve. It’s time to stand up and say “We are Americans. We are the greatest nation on Earth not in spite of the challenges we faced but because of them.”
Americans will not buckle or break. We will not turn on each other or turn on our principles.
We will pursue our enemies with unyielding power and purpose. We will crush their would-be caliphate and counter radical jihadism wherever it takes root. We’re in it for the long haul. And we’ll stand taller and stronger than they can possibly imagine. That’s what we do here. That’s who we are.
That’s how we will win by looking one another with respect, with concern, with commitment. That’s the America that I know makes us all so proud to be a part of.
Thank you all very much.
And I also have come out in favor of guaranteeing that unaccompanied children have government sponsored counsel so that as they go through the process, they will not be lost in the process, confused by the process, and will have a chance to tell their story.
It is important to put this in the broader context, which is what I’ve tried to do.
We have to have comprehensive immigration reform. But how we implement our immigration laws does have ability for the executive to make choices. And I would prioritize criminals, people who are plotting or planning or taking action that is against our public safety or our property. Those are the kinds of people that would be on my list.
We have to change the immigration, asylum, and refugee laws.
And right now until we do, we have to try to figure out how to handle this very large group of predominately women and children who are coming north.
So, we have to be sensitive and humane in the application of our laws.
And we also have to do a lot more – and this is where I think I have a particular passion – we have to do a lot more to help those countries in Central America get over some of the challenges of violence, criminality, drug cartels that is really the impetus behind it.
Because you know that this year we had no net immigration from Mexico, and in fact, Mexicans in America are actually going back to Mexico. Now, why is that? Because there is despite all the problems as we still know exist there’s better economic opportunity, there is better stability for families.
And similarly, I recall very well the good help that America gave to the Colombian people to overcome their decades of civil war and the horrendous behavior of the drug cartels so now Colombia is doing better.
We need to focus in particular on Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador.
And I would certainly – I’m going to end private detention centers. I’m going to end family detention both of which I think are not in keeping with our values as Americans.
I cannot sit here and tell you I have a blanket rule about who or who won’t ever be let into the country to stay because it has to be done individually by individually.
What I don’t like are the mass roundups and the raids that just pick people up and send them off in the middle of the night and that should end.
Let’s start with the most contentious issues – criminal justice reform, policing reform, incarceration reform.
And I believe strongly that this has to be the highest priority of the president.
President Obama’s policing commission has some very good suggestions that I would want to build on.
But we have to do everything possible in reaching out and listening directly to communities that are being affected, whose trust has been betrayed and broken, whose families are desolated by the large numbers of missing men in the community.
And I have a very specific set of recommendations about what I would do.
When it comes to arrests, we’ve got to have a much clearer set of standards because African-American men and Latino men in particular get arrested more quickly for doing the same thing as a white man does. And then it continues through the process – more likely to be charged, more likely to be convicted, more likely to be incarcerated. And the figures don’t lie. We know what they are.
But we have to bring those to a broader audience because it’s such a violation of what we say our values are – you know, equal before the law. Well, we have systemic racism and bias that is implicit in our system.
And unless we begin to go after that and expose it and end it, we won’t solve this problem.
But in addition to the really difficult, painful pieces of reform needed in criminal justice and incarceration, we’ve got to disrupt the school to prison pipeline. We need a cradle to college pipeline. We need more job opportunities.
I want to incentivize more investments in the most disinvested communities in our country – inner cities, poor rural areas, Native American reservations.
We have some places where the poverty is so appalling. It’s such a rebuke to who we say we are and what we say we stand for.
So it’s not just dealing with the criminal justice issue because I want to end the incarceration of people for low-level offenses, for non-violent offenses. I want to divert them from the criminal justice system.
We need far more opportunities for people to stay out of jail or prison while they, you know, deal with let’s say a drug problem or a mental health problem, which is one of the main reasons people end up in jail and prison. And when you look at it, it’s not only wrong and dehumanizing, it doesn’t make economic sense.
If you have a system where we should have treatment recovery programs across America so that when somebody is in and out of the jail or the emergency room because of alcohol or because of drugs they get a chance to go into a different kind of setting than a jail. And I’ve seen those. I saw a great example in Reno, Nevada started by the sheriff’s office and Catholic Charities.
And what I want is to make the case it’s the right thing to do but it’s also a lot cheaper.
So if I can’t get to you because it’s the humanitarian, moral thing to do, it costs $3,000 to divert somebody; it costs $30,000 to put them in jail or prison. Now, you make the choice.
And it is just hard to justify because if we have a right – and I think people have a right to health; we’re working on trying to make that real in people’s lives – but certainly the full range of reproductive health rights that women should have includes access to safe and legal abortions.
But if state governments, if politicians use their power to try to restrict that right, well-off people are still going to have it. You know, we know that. But a lot of poorer women, rural women, isolated, far from a place where they can get services are going to be denied.
That’s why this case is going to the Supreme Court out of Texas is so important because the Texas government has forced the closing of Planned Parenthood clinics on totally inaccurate medical requirements and it’s a huge state and it’s going to be much more difficult for poor women to exercise that right.
So yeah, I think we should do everything we can to repeal the Hyde Amendment. I think it’s been a blockade.
I think what’s happening is that because of some of the actions that are going on in states and because of the Supreme Court decision, this is in the news now. So anybody who might have thought “Well, this is settled. This is ancient history” is realizing no, maybe it isn’t, and it’s important to do what we can to raise the visibility of these issues and to demonstrate the important connections that they have in people’s lives. Whether or not you ever exercise that right, it is something that should be available.
And I feel especially passionate about this because I’ve traveled to so many countries. You know, I’ve been in a hospital in northeastern Brazil where the doctors told me half the women are so happy they just had a baby, half the women are here because of botched abortions.
I went to Romania where the prior communist dictatorship actually legally required every woman to have five children and the secret police would follow to make sure that you weren’t trying to do anything, even birth control, to prevent that. And what was the result? Thousands of abandoned babies, orphanages filled with little kids and terrible consequences.
And of course, I went and spoke in Beijing in 1995 against forced sterilization.
So, to me, reproductive rights are a fundamental human right. No government should interfere. They should not tell a woman what she can do with her right and her body and we have to stand up against this movement that is currently being pushed across our country…
And many of those threats are fueled by the gun violence we face every single day where 90 Americans are killed by guns – homicides, suicides, tragic, avoidable accidents.
So one of the reasons why I’m so adamant and so much in support of President Obama’s policies that he’s rolled out is I just think as a nation we cannot sit idly by while 33,000 people a year die from gun violence.
I also believe that we have to take any form of violence and particularly organized violence seriously.
So, yes, I believe there are all kinds of underground movements and efforts in our country to try to use violence or assert certain beliefs that I find often lead to violence.
So let’s take some of the white extremism that we see. You know, I remember very well going to Oklahoma City and seeing the ruins of the federal building where as I recall 168 Americans, including 19 children, were murdered by a bomb, by a guy who hated the government. That’s terrorism as far as I’m concerned.
I also think when you have communities terrorized by gangs so that parents are afraid to send their kids out, afraid to go out after school.
I remember that beautiful young woman, Hadiya Pendleton, from Chicago. She performed at President Obama’s second inauguration, came home, hanging out with her friends across from her school in Chicago, gets murdered. Stray bullet, intentional bullet, the fact is murdered.
I think that when you have police violence that terrorizes communities, that doesn’t show the respect that you’re supposed to have from protecting people in your authority, that can feel also terrorizing.
So there are so many different kinds of potential violent acts and we have to go after all of them. We have to stop them all. We cannot let anybody live in fear. And it becomes higher profile when it’s tied to international terrorism because that seems like it’s coming from the outside and it’s not homegrown. Well, I saw homegrown terrorism in Oklahoma City and I saw foreign terrorism in New York City and I saw people grieving over the loss of their loved ones and at some point, we all have to come together as a country again and stand against violence and do something to get the guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them no matter who they are.
For me, look, I was born white, middle class in the middle of America. I went to good public schools. I had a very strong supportive family. I had a lot of great experiences growing up. I went to a wonderful college. I went to law school.
I never really knew what was or what wasn’t part of the privilege. I just knew that I was a lucky person and that being lucky was in part related to who I am, where I’m from, and the opportunities I had.
But I’ll tell you when I first realized that I was privileged both because I was white and because I was economically stable. I had two experiences – the first and they both came through my church.
The first when I was about 11 years old, our church asked if some of us would volunteer to babysit for the children of migrant workers on Saturdays because the families had to go into the field and the older kids had to go with them, and there was nobody left to watch the little kids. And I and a couple of my friends volunteered.
And I remember in those days, Chicago was surrounded by fields. Doesn’t look like it anymore but it was. And it was on the migrant journey from Mexico up through Texas up through the Midwest ended up in Michigan but at certain points in the summer harvest folks were in Chicago area.
So I remember going out there taking care of these adorable little kids and I kind of thought, well, they’re very different from me; they’ve got different experiences but they were just little kids.
And then at the end of the day, at the end of this long road because there were all these sort of housing units, at the end of this long road, the bus stopped and the parents and the older brothers and sisters got out, and when the little kids saw them, they just dropped everything and began running for their mothers and their fathers, holding their arms out.
And I remember like it was yesterday watching that and I was thinking, “I used to do that with my father.” And I’m watching these kids and their families. They have to work so hard and the place they live is not very nice, and I just felt, you know, I have a different kind of life. I didn’t call it a particular name but it was a different life and I knew that.
So first question. Would you commit right now not to use the words “illegal” or “illegals” to refer to undocumented immigrants?
So yet we do need to have secure borders and what that will take is a combination of technology and physical barriers.
…Well, I’ve voted for border security and some of it was a fence. I don’t think we ever called it a wall. Maybe in some places it was a wall. But it was aimed at controlling our borders.
And I think we have to get comprehensive immigration reform with a path to full citizenship. But I also think we need to keep our border secure. I don’t see a contradiction there.
What I object to about what the Republicans are saying is that they always combine or at least the person you’re referring to he always combine building a wall and deporting 11 or 12 million people so they’re on the other side of the wall.
Now, that to me is not only foolish, it’s offensive. And so part of the challenge is yes, we need border security and at the same time we need comprehensive immigration reform. We have to do both.
But I do think we’ve got to stabilize Social Security, and that’s going to take some real effort. So I have the same plan but paid for by closing loopholes and raising taxes on the wealthy. So I think my plan is a better approach to get to the same objective.
And I do think that we’ve got to deal with numerous problems simultaneously, and therefore until we stabilize social security and make sure it will be there and the promise will be fulfilled, I don’t want to do anything with the payroll tax.
I have said number one and I have capped deductions to 28% with the exception of charitable contributions, closing loopholes like the carried interest loophole that hedge fund managers use to pay a lower tax rate than their secretaries do, the Buffett rule – a 30% tax on everybody making $1 million or more – and then what I call a fair share surcharge of a 4% surcharge on incomes over $5 million.
Because we are so out of whack right now, and the reason I’ve said I don’t want to raise middle class taxes is most middle class families haven’t recovered from the Great Recession. You know, they haven’t recovered from their wages not going up. They oftentimes are working two jobs now instead of one job. Their family wealth has not recovered. They maybe lost a home and now they’re renting because they can’t get back into the home market.
So, I think I have a very clear plan that I’ve outlined about where the money will come from to provide paid leave, which is a high priority of mine.

Are you guys ready to win an election?
Well, I sure am. I am ready with your help, and I am so honored to accept this endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund.
As Cecile just said, I have stood with you throughout my life and certainly throughout my career. And I promise you this: As your president, I will always have your back. We will work and fight together.
Now, this has been a pretty energetic and even emotional afternoon because you’ve heard so many great advocates, so many people who are on the front lines fighting to preserve women’s rights.
…I want to thank everyone associated with Planned Parenthood from the board to the staff to the supporters one and all.
And I particularly want to thank your fearless leader, Cecile Richards. There’s a lot about Cecile that I really admire, and among the long list, when Republicans demanded that she testify before Congress, they did not know what they were getting themselves into.
I know a little bit about this. It’s one of my common experiences with Cecile because for five hours Republicans bullied and blustered; Cecile never flinched. She just told them the facts, and you know a lot of the Republicans are kind of fact-adverse. They didn’t want to hear any of that. They do seem to live in an evidence-free zone just like the Republican candidates for president.
And when it was over, I saw an interview where someone asked Cecile, “How did you do it? How did you stay so poised in the face of such breathtaking contempt for women’s health, for women’s rights, for women’s dignity?”
You know what her answer was? She said, “When you’re standing up for what’s right, you keep going.” And that’s what Planned Parenthood has done for nearly 100 years. It’s certainly what Cecile Richards has done. She comes by that grit and determination from her wonderful mother, who I was privileged to know.

And I wish Ann Richards could be here with us for this election. Wouldn’t you love to hear her give Donald Trump and Ted Cruz and the others a piece of her mind? Oh boy, so would I.
You know, every election is important. But this one poses such a stark choice and the stakes are so high.
In January of 2017, a new president will walk into the Oval Office. America cannot afford for it to be a Republican who will rip away all the progress we have made.
You hear them. You hear what they’re saying out as they joust for position. The same top-down policies that fail and led to the great recession.
They don’t even seem to understand what’s going on in the lives of Americans. Whether it’s economic policy or health care policy or foreign policy, they’re so out of touch and out of date.
This year, they succeeded in passing a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act and to de-fund Planned Parenthood. And the only thing, as Cecile said, stopping them from making that the law of the land was President Obama’s veto pen.
And everyone of them have promised to sign such a bill and you know what that would mean.
When Planned Parenthood is threatened, the health of women and a lot of men too all across our country is threatened just like here in New Hampshire when the executive council voted to de-fund Planned Parenthood.
Without the Affordable Care Act, nearly 19 million Americans now would lose their health care coverage.
Insurance companies would be back in charge. They’d be free discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions, free to go back to charging women more for our health care than men.
So clearly, we cannot let that happen, and therefore we need a Democratic nominee who will be able to beat the Republicans and get the job done for Americans.
I shudder to think about what the Republicans would do if given the chance.
We know that any Republican president would accelerate the assault on access to safe and legal abortion.
And think about this. The next president can easily appoint more than one justice to the Supreme Court.
Already the court is getting ready to consider a Texas law that imposes burdensome and medically unnecessary requirements on abortion providers. If these restrictions are allowed to stand, 5.4 million women will be left with just 10 health centers across that huge expanse of Texas that provide necessary services. And the effects of that decision would ripple out across the country. It’s the biggest challenge to Roe v. Wade in a generation.
The court will also review another challenge to the Affordable Care Act’s birth control benefit. Remember, the Hobby Lobby decision that made it possible for a woman’s employer to limit her health care choices? Well, that fight’s not over either.
Access to affordable birth control is still hanging in the balance at the Supreme Court.

Now, if a Republican wins this election and gets the chance to stack the Supreme Court with right wing justices, together they will accelerate the move to take America in the wrong direction on so many issues that you and I have fought for and that many Americans now take for granted.
They want to strip away worker’s rights and make it harder to organize. They want to turn back the clock on voting rights and LGBT rights. They want to further gut campaign finance reform and let billionaires and corporations keep buying our elections.
Now, the Republican candidate won’t fight to raise the minimum wage or to do what is necessary to ensure that women finally get equal pay for the work we do.
They all want to cut taxes further for the super rich and get out of the way for corporations.
2015 was the second hottest year on record but some Republican candidates still deny that climate change even exists. You know what they say, “Well, I’m not a scientist.” Well, there is an easy answer to that. Go talk to a scientist.
And you know, it’s – in fact, on all of these issues I don’t know who they spend their time talking to or listening to. Honest to goodness.
They don’t agree with anything I’m advocating for – raising the minimum wage, equal pay, combatting climate change, raising incomes for working Americans.
I see them talking to people. I’ve concluded that they have this group of actors. They just move from place to place. Because nobody ever stands up and says what I hear from the thousands of people that I listen to.
So you don’t have to take it from me though. They’re saying it all themselves. They’re telling you exactly what they’ll do if they get elected. And you know what? We should believe them.
We should believe them because they are so far out in saying what they will do. They will be held to it. And some of them even believe it.
So that’s why we have to know exactly where we stand and I want you to know where I stand.
First of all, I will always defend Planned Parenthood and I will say consistently and proudly Planned Parenthood should be funded, supported, and appreciated not undermined, misrepresented, and demonized.
I believe we need to protect access to safe and legal abortion not just in principle but in practice.
Any right that requires you to take extraordinary measures to access it is no right at all.
Not when patients and providers have to endure harassment and intimidation just to walk into a health center.
Not when making an appointment means taking time off from work, finding child care, and driving halfway across your state.
Not when providers are required by state law to recite misleading information to women in order to shame and scare them.
And not as long as we have laws on the book like the Hyde Amendment making it harder for low-income women to exercise their full rights.
Now, when I talk like this – and I do often – Republicans say I’m playing the gender card. Well, if fighting for equal pay, paid leave, and Planned Parenthood is playing the gender card, deal me in.

So I want you also to know, I will always stand up for access for affordable contraception without interference from politicians or employers. Birth control is basic health care, and it plays a vital role in the health of millions of women and their families.
I waged a fight with my good friend, Sen. Patty Murray from Washington, when I was in the Senate in order to make sure that emergency contraception could be over the counter. And we waged that battle for years. We held up a Bush appointee to the Food and Drug Administration and we finally won.
That’s what I promise you. I will never give up and I will never back off.
And I will support comprehensive, inclusive sex education. For goodness sake, people deserve accurate information.
I thought we were an open society. Well, we’re going to make sure that’s true across the board.
And I will defend and improve the Affordable Care Act. You may remember as Cecile said that when I was First Lady I fought to give every America access to quality affordable health care, and I still have the scars to prove it.
And when the insurance companies and the drug companies and their allies blocked our way, I was disappointed but not discouraged.
I went back to work with leaders on both sides of the aisle to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program to provide coverage and care for eight million children.
And two decades later, I was so proud to be part of President Obama’s administration when he signed the Affordable Care Act into law.
As your president, I will do more to bring down costs for families and to ease burdens on small businesses and make sure consumers have the choices that you deserve. Nobody in America should have to choose between getting health care or paying their rent.
We can fix this but only if we elect a president who has what it takes to get the job done for American families, to take on the issues as big as the world and as small as your kitchen table.
I’ve been fighting for women and families my entire life. I will go anywhere, anytime to meet with anyone and work my heart out to find common ground. But I will also stand my ground. I’m not going to let anyone rip away the progress we’ve made.
That’s why hedge fund billionaires are already running ads against me. That’s why the Koch brothers are promising to spend whatever it takes to stop me. Because they know I will defeat their right-wing top down agenda that is so bad for America.
Now, Donald Trump and Ted Cruz and their powerful friends may be trying to drag us back to the Stone Age but we’ve got our sights set on the future.
Because in spite of the challenges we face, I believe our best days are ahead of us. There’s so much we can do together.
Just look at Planned Parenthood every single day at health centers across America. People are doing extraordinary things together. Sometimes under enormous stress and pressure.
When a man who never should have been allowed to have a gun in the first place killed three people at Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs, the community came together to mourn.

The very next day, Planned Parenthood staff got up and went to work in Colorado and across the country, providing birth control, STD testing, cancer screenings, and, yes, abortion services.
Every time a patient called to ask if they could still come in for their appointment, there was only one response: “These doors stay open.”
Those four words sum up everything you need to know about Planned Parenthood, don’t they?
When you’re standing up for what’s right, you keep going.
I was raised by a mother who had a difficult childhood. She was abandoned, mistreated, out on her own as a house maid by the time she was 14. But she never stopped believing the future could be better. She never stopped being grateful for the second, third, and fourth chances that people gave her in our country.
And now I have this amazing 15-month-old granddaughter and I think about her everyday. And of course, I will do everything that I can to make sure that she has every opportunity in life.
But here’s what I have concluded now that I’m a member of the grandparents’ club. That’s not enough. It really matters what kind of country she grows up in and what kind of world is out there waiting for her. It matters not just that my grandchild can realize the promise of America but that every child and grandchild has the same opportunity.
Together, we can have the America that we all believe is possible, and I need your help to do that.
I need your help starting here in the New Hampshire primary and the Iowa caucus. We can win this election. We can build that better future, and yes indeed, a future where a father can tell his daughter “You can be anything you want to be including president of the United States.”
Thank you all very much!

Thank you so much!
Oh my gosh, I am so happy to be here. But I have to tell you I am so thrilled that Demi [Lovato] is here with us.
And you already know what an extraordinary talent she is and you got a taste of that tonight.
I want to thank her for how brave she is, how confident she is, because she is using her voice not only to sing and inspire us through that, she’s using her voice to reach out to so many people who need a little bit of help themselves, who have some challenges that she is determined to help people find their way through.
And I appreciate that because I think we all need to help each other along life’s way, and Demi, you have been just an extraordinary example for so many in the way that you have talked about issues that people find sometimes hard to talk about.
And you’ve given hope and a lot of positive reinforcement to so many.
And I’m thrilled you’re here lending your voice and your example to our efforts to get people to come out and caucus on February 1st.
How many of you are precinct captains, team leaders, volunteers? People who are already involved, thank you so much!
And somewhere in this big crowd is Congressman Dave Loebsack. I know. And I’m thrilled to have him here as well.
It’s going to be an exciting 10 or 11 days now until we get to the caucus and I am hoping that each and every one of you will get interested, get involved, be part of this process.
You know, people in Iowa literally are being watched not just around our country but around the world because you get the first chance to decide who should be the next president of the United States.
And I would be so thrilled and honored if you came and caucused for me on Feb. 1st.
And I promise you I will work as hard as I know how to take it to the Republicans to win the election in November of 2016.
I am proud of the progress we’ve made under President Obama, and I don’t want anybody sending us back.
So please, if you haven’t already, sign up to be part of this campaign not only to deal with the big issues like how do we get the economy working for everybody not just those at the top and raise incomes, how do we keep our country safe and lead the world with peace, prosperity, and security, and how do we deal with a lot of those problems that people across Iowa talk to me about – how are you going to afford college, how are we going to get the cost of student debt down, how are we going to make it easier for people to afford everything from prescription drugs to child care, how are we going to defend our rights, our civil rights, human rights, women’s rights, gay rights, voting rights, workers’ rights, and how are we going to take on those big special interests who are always trying to put the wall against the kind of progress we believe in. I’m going to take them on whether they’re insurance companies or banks or drug companies or the gun lobby. We’re not going to let them have their way.
So this is a great night here at the university made very special by this extraordinary young woman. Please, join us in helping to change our country, keep it on a progressive path, make sure we don’t go back. We go forward with confidence.
Thank you, Demi!

I love it! Thank you! Thank you all so much!
Wow! What a night! An unbelievable night! What a great campaign!
This has been an incredible honor to campaign across Iowa with so many of you to make the case for the kind of future we want for the Democratic Party and for the United States of America.
There is so much at stake in this election. I don’t need to tell you. Every single one of you who came out for me, who work so many hours from my young organizers with energy and passion to the families and friends across this state, I am deeply grateful.
Well, I love all of you.
But here’s what I want you to know. It is rare – it is rare that we have the opportunity we do now to have a real contest of ideas, to really think hard about what the Democratic Party stands for and what we want the future of our country to look like if we do our part to build it.
I am a progressive who gets things done for people.
I am honored to stand in the long line of American reformers who make up our minds that the status quo is not good enough, that standing still is not an option, and that brings people together to find ways forward that will improve the lives of Americans.
I look back over the years of my involvement from that very job I had at the Children’s Defense Fund and I know what we are capable of doing.
I know we can create more good paying jobs and raise income for hardworking Americans again.
I know that we can finish the job of universal health care coverage for single man, woman, and child.
I know we can combat climate change and be the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
I know we can make our education system work for every one of our children, especially those who come with disadvantages.
I know we can make college affordable and get student debt off [the backs of] young people.
And I know we can protect our rights – women’s rights, gay rights, voting rights, immigrant rights, workers’ rights.
I know too we can stand up to the gun lobby and get common sense gun safety measures.
And how do we do that? We do that – we do that – by securing the nomination and then we do it by winning and going into that White House as others before have determined to push forward on the great goals and values that unite us as Americans.
I congratulate – I congratulate my esteemed friends and opponents.
I wish Gov. O’Malley the very best. He’s a great public servant who has served Maryland and our country.
And I am excited about really getting into the debate with Sen. Sanders about the best way forward to fight for us and America.
In the last few weeks, we’ve finally began to have what I think is one of the most important substantive conversations that the Democratic Party could have. And I am thrilled at all of the people who are playing a part in that.
I know that we may have differences of opinion about how best to achieve our goals. But I believe we have a very clear idea that the Democratic Party and this campaign stands for what is best in America. And we have to be united.
When it’s all said and done, we have to be united against a Republican vision and candidates who would drive us apart and divide us.
That is not who we are, my friends. I’ve followed their campaign very closely. I understand what they’re appealing to, and I intend to stand against it. I will not let their divisiveness, their efforts to rip away the progress that we’ve made be successful because we can’t afford that.
So as I stand here tonight breathing a big sigh of relief – thank you, Iowa! I want you to know I will keep doing what I have done my entire life. I will keep standing up for you. I will keep fighting for you. I will always work to achieve the America that I believe in where the promise of that dream that we hold out to our children and our grandchildren never fades but inspires generations to come.
Join me. Let’s go win the nomination! Thank you all, and God bless you!

…Thank you all. I just want to begin…Thank you all very, very much. My goodness. I don’t know what we’d have done tonight if we’d actually won. This is a pretty exciting event, and I’m very grateful to all of you.
I want to begin by congratulating Sen. Sanders on his victory tonight, and I want to thank each and every one of you. And I want to say I still love New Hampshire and I always will.
And here’s what we’re going to do.
Now we take this campaign to the entire country. We are going to fight for every vote in every state.
We’re going to fight for real solutions that make a real difference in people’s lives.
You know, when I started this campaign last spring, I knew we were facing profound challenges as a country. The way too many things were going just wasn’t right.
It isn’t right that the kids I met in Flint on Sunday were poisoned because their governor wanted to save money.
It isn’t right for a grandmother here in New Hampshire or anywhere else to have to choose between paying rent and buying medicine because a prescription drug company increased the price 4,000% overnight.
And it isn’t right that a cashier that I met here in New Hampshire is paid less than her son for doing the same work even though she’s been on the job for more years.
Now, people have every right to be angry. But they’re also hungry. They’re hungry for solutions – what are we going to do.
And that is the fight we’re taking to the country – what is the best way to change people’s lives so we can all grow together, who is the best change-maker.
And here’s what I promise – here’s what I promise – I will work harder than anyone to actually make the changes that make your lives better.
In this campaign, you’ve heard a lot about Washington and about Wall Street.
Now, Sen. Sanders and I both want to get secret unaccountable money out of politics.
And let’s remember – let’s remember – Citizens United – one of the worst Supreme Court decisions in our country’s history was actually a case about a right-wing attack and my campaign. A right-wing organization took aim at me and ended up damaging our entire democracy.
So yes, you’re not going to find anybody more committed to aggressive campaign finance reform than me.
We also agree that Wall Street can never be allowed to once again threaten Main Street, and I will fight to rein in Wall Street. And you know what? I know how to do it.
So when I tell you no bank can be too big to fail and no executive too powerful to jail, you can count on it.
Now, the real differences in this race are truly over how do we create a future of prosperity, opportunity, and security for all of us.
We need to build a growth and fairness economy with higher wages and more good-paying jobs, including a bold national mission to create millions of jobs in clean energy, manufacturing, and infrastructure.

And we need to unleash again the innovation of our entrepreneurs and small businesses, make it easier for parents to balance work and family, close the loopholes in our tax code, crack down on corporations that game the system, stop other countries from taking advantage of us with unfair trade practices.
But even all that is not enough.
We also have to break through the barriers of bigotry. African-American parents shouldn’t have to worry that their children will be harassed, humiliated, even shot because of the color of their skin.
Immigrant families shouldn’t have to lie awake at night listening for a knock on the door.
LGBT Americans shouldn’t be fired from their jobs because of who they are or who they love.
And let’s finally deliver something long overdue – equal pay for women.
So, here’s how I see it. A president has to do all parts of the job for all Americans to make sure nothing holds you back – not debts, not discrimination, not a deck that’s always stack at the top.
We need to break down those barriers and build ladders of opportunity for every person. That’s how we will build a better tomorrow together, and that has been the cause and work of my life.
You know, my family and my faith taught me a simple credo – do all the good you can in all the ways you can for all the people you can. That’s what called me to a life of service just like millions of teachers and nurses and police officers and firefighters and members of our armed services who get up everyday and do the quiet work – the heroic work – for the rest of us.
But when children anywhere in our country go to bed hungry or are denied a quality education or who face abuse or abandonment, that diminishes all of us. That’s why I did start my career at the Children’s Defense Fund. That’s why I went undercover in Alabama to expose racism in the schools. That’s why I worked to reform juvenile justice in South Carolina. And that is why I went to Flint, Michigan on Sunday.
When people anywhere in America are held back by injustice, that demands action. That is why I believe so strongly that we have to keep up with every fiber of our being the argument for the campaign for human rights, human rights as women’s rights, human rights as gay rights, human rights as worker rights, human rights as working rights, human rights across the board for every single American.
Now that is who I am. That is what I’ve always done. That is why I am in this race.
I know I have some work to do, particularly with young people. But I will repeat again what I’ve said this week. Even if they are not supporting me now I will support them because I know – I know I’ve had a blessed life. But I also know what it’s like to stumble and fall and so many people across America know that feeling. And we’ve learned it’s not whether you get knocked down that matters, it’s whether you get back up.
So my friends, please join me in building on the progress we’ve made under President Obama, pushing forward every single day for as long as it takes to break down those barriers that hold us back.
We’ve got to believe in the basic proposition of our country when all Americans have a chance to succeed, when each of us has the opportunity to live up to our God-given potential. Then and only then can America live up to its potential as well.
So let me thank all of you. I am very grateful to my wonderful family. Knowing they are by my side keeps me going everyday. To the thousands of volunteers and organizers who called neighbors and knocked on doors in the New Hampshire snow, to everyone who went to HillaryClinton.com to give what you could, to the 700,000 people that contributed to this campaign – the vast majority giving less than $100 – I know that doesn’t fit with the narrative – I know there are those who want to deny the passion and the purpose you all show everyday for this campaign, but you are the reason we are here and you are the reason we are going to win the nomination and then win this election together!
Thank you all! Thank you so very much!

…Well this is the day the Lord has made.  Let us rejoice and be glad in it.
You know, it doesn’t get much better being in a house of prayer, introduced by your great pastor who hails from Pine Bluff, Arkansas.  Small world but great world.
I am so grateful to Pastor Stewart for this congregation, for giving me the chance to come and say a few words that are on my heart about this community.  I want to thank and lift up your mayor, a mayor who is a great servant leader.  Someone who is working every way she knows how to provide the help and support that all the people of Flint deserve to have and in particular the children of this community.
I feel blessed to be here with you. I wish it were for a different reason.  I wish I were here only to celebrate the good things that are happening in this church and in this community.  Young people who are starting out, making a better life for themselves.  Community leaders working to bring the city together.  The ministers who guide you in faith and worship.
But I am here because for nearly two years Flint’s water was poisoned.
I’m here because for nearly two years, mothers and fathers were voicing concerns about the water’s color, about the smell, about the rashes that it gave to those who were bathing in it.
And for nearly two years, you were told, Flint was told, the water was safe.
I have just met with two young mothers who have told me the stories of their experiences and particularly what has happened to their children.  Emergency room visits that never occurred before.  Behavioral problems in school that had never been a problem before.  Worries about what’s down the road, in terms of the development and the life and opportunities of these precious children.
And one young woman in her 30s, said “You know, I’m not supposed to be talking to my friends about how much medication we’re taking, what kind of stresses we’re under.  But that’s what we talk about now.”
I thank the elected officials who are here.  The pastor asked them to stand and I appreciate greatly the work that they are doing in the city, the county, the state and the federal level.
I had the opportunity to be with your Senator and my friend, Debbie Stabenow, who is working hard along with your other Senator Gary Peters and the congressman who are here as well –  Congressman Kildee and Levin and others – to try to get support and help from the federal government.
But I want you to know, that this has to be a national priority not just for today or tomorrow.  Clean water is not optional my friends; it is not a luxury.
I said weeks ago if what had been happening in Flint had happened in Gross Pointe, or Bloomfield Hills, I think we all know, we would have had a solution yesterday.

This is not merely unacceptable or wrong, though it is both. What happened in Flint is immoral.
The children of Flint are just as precious as the children of any other part of America. They are just as deserving of good health care, of good education, and of bright futures.
My first job out of law school was working for the most extraordinary Marian Wright Edelman at the Children’s Defense Fund. I went to work there because I believed because of the lessons and examples of my mother and my church that every child, every single child, should have the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential in this country of ours.
We don’t yet know how many children have been affected by lead poisoning. We don’t yet know how many challenges they will face in the years ahead. But what we do know – we know that even a single child suffering lead poisoning due to the state’s neglect is one child too many.
And we also know we need action now. Not next month, next year, down the road. We need action now.
Senators Stabenow and Peters and your other congressional representatives are working to pass an amendment to get $200 million dollars to fix Flint’s water infrastructure. Congress needs to pass that bill immediately.
This is no time for politics as usual. Flint should be able to start making the repairs you need to restore safe water as soon as possible.
But it’s not only the physical infrastructure that needs to be fixed. It’s the human beings. We need to do so much more to provide health care and educational supports for Flint’s children. To test for lead and its affects on an ongoing basis and treat them. You can’t just take one test and know you’re safe.
We need to make sure Flint’s kids are getting good nutrition. To help counter the effects of the lead, we need to expand early head start, nurse home visiting programs, special education funding, all of which must be used to address the damage that lead poisoning can cause.
I have seen for myself, my friends, the incredible good work programs like these can do.
For eight years I represented New York. Our problem with lead poisoning in New York was not the water, it was the lead-based paint on the old houses that people lived in. It was the crumbling turning into dust of that. It was little toddlers crawling on the floor picking things up, licking them as babies do. It was breathing it.
And we had, as so many places especially in New England and the Mid-Atlantic and the Midwest where a lot of older housing stock and a lot of challenges, we had problems.
So as a Senator, I fought for children struggling to bear heavy burdens. And I will fight for you in Flint no matter how long it takes.
We also need to repair the bonds of trust that have been broken here in Flint. That means giving you transparent information about every part of the response to this crisis.
The people of this community should know what the plan is for repairing the infrastructure, when the work will be done in your neighborhood.
You should know whether you need to replace pipes and fixtures in your own homes.
And I also, as the mayor and I were just talking, I want to figure out if there is some way that we can empower and hire citizens of Flint to do the work that needs to be done in this city.

And in addition, I think we should send a lot more Americorp volunteers to come here as we put young people to work in Flint, working side by side with those who are part of the national service of our federal government.
Realizing that yes, this is a problem that affects Flint, but I dare say there are other communities with similar problems. This is not the only place where children are being harmed by what they breathe and what they drink.
And you should have all the information you need to know what this means for your children and grandchildren. What’s true about lead poisoning and what isn’t. What the challenges are. What you could do to help and where you can turn to help.
Now, I know that this is going to take time and it’s not going to be easy. But repairing trust is as important as repairing pipes. We need to be able to lift each other up again. We have to trust each other, to count on each other, to truly be our brothers’ and our sisters’ keepers.
When I first heard about what was happening here, I was so angry. I was outraged. And I know you must feel exactly the same.
When I talked to those three young women before coming out here, when I looked at the children of one of them, I was just heartsick.
You try to do everything right, don’t you? As a parent and grandparent, you want the best for those children that are such gifts. And something out of your control that you thought you could trust has made it so much harder as erected obstacles where there weren’t any before.
I wanted to come here to today to support your mayor and other officials who are fighting for you. Also to support the faith community, which I know pastor will have to play a big role in working to get information out and helping to organize people and trying to empower members of congregations.
And I want you to understand that this is, for me, a personal commitment. I will stand with you every step of the way. I will not for one minute forget about you, or forget about your children. I will do everything I can to help you get back up, to get your strength and resilience flowing through this community again. Because what happened here should never have happened anywhere.
As you may know, I am now a grandmother and it is the best experience ever. And I’m lucky enough that my daughter and my son-in-law send me pictures all of the time. Because when I can’t see her, I miss her so much.
And I was looking at some of those pictures on my phone as I was coming here this morning. And I literally could not imagine what I would be feeling if that little face I was looking at, one of the faces of the children that you know and love so well.
So I want to thank those who have been calling for action for so long – your mayor, the mothers, the fathers, Doctor Mona, Mar Edwards, Senator Stabenow and Peters, Congressman Kildee, all who are working to try to get the help that you need.
I also want to encourage Americans across our country, and I’m pleased that the press is here, because we have to keep the spotlight bright. And I want to encourage Americans to donate to flintkids.org and other organizations as a way of helping.
I want to single out a group that came to my attention. Inmates at Handlon Correctional Facility in Ionia have pledged to donate as much as a third of their monthly prison incomes. They want to help you buy filters and bottled water. They don’t earn much, but they are moved to help this city.
We know we need more action. Do not grow weary doing good. Do not get discouraged. Do not give up. The road is long. And I know that there will be a lot of bumps along its way. But this is the most important work we are ever called to do – to reach out in every way we can, no matter who we are to lend that helping hand, that support, that love, that sense of possibility again for every single person in Flint.
I will be there with you and I will make sure in any way that I can that America stays with you too. And I look forward to coming back to Flint, to seeing this community rise, rise again, rise with determination resilience, support, service, leadership. We can do this. Let’s make sure that we take care of the people and give every child a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.
Thank you all and God bless you!

Thank you! Thank you, Nevada! Thank you so much! Thank you! Thank you so much!
You know, I am so, so thrilled and so grateful to all of my supporters out there. Some may have doubted us but we never doubted each other. And this one’s for you.
I want to congratulate Sen. Sanders on a hard-fought race here.
And I want to thank each and every one of you. You turned out in every corner of this state with determination and purpose.
Hotel and casino workers who never wavered. Students with too much debt, and small business owners who never go off the clock. Tens of thousands of men and women with kids to raise and bills to pay and dreams that won’t die. This is your campaign, and it is a campaign to break down every barrier that holds you back. We’re going to build ladders of opportunities in their place so every American can go as far as your hard work can take you.
And to the thousands of volunteers and organizers who work so hard in this state, to the more than 750,000 people who’ve gone to HillaryClinton.com and contributed what you could – the vast majority giving less than $100 – and to the millions of people across our country who are supporting our campaign, thank you from the bottom of my heart.
We hear you. We see you. We’re incredibly grateful to you because we’re in this together.
We look at our country and see so much that isn’t working the way it should.
We see grandparents forced to choose between paying rent and buying medicine because a prescription drug company has increased prices 5,000% overnight.
We see African-American families denied mortgages at nearly three times the rate of white families.
We see small towns and rural communities hollowed out by lost jobs and lost hope.
We see a rising generation of young people coming of age in a world where opportunity seems out of reach.
And worst of all, we see children growing up in poverty or pain or fear.

Here in Nevada, a brave young girl told me how scared she is that her parents could be deported.
In South Carolina, I met kids trying to learn in crumbling classrooms in neglected communities.
And then there’s Flint, Michigan, where children were poisoned by toxic water just because their governor wanted to save a little money.
So Americans are right to be angry. But we’re also hungry for real solutions.
In the campaign, you’ve heard a lot about Washington and Wall Street. We all want to get secret unaccountable money out of politics. That starts with appointing a new justice to the Supreme Court who will protect the right of every citizen to vote, not every corporation to buy elections.
And we also agree that Wall Street can never be allowed to threaten Main Street. No bank can be too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail.
But if we listen to the voices of Flint and Ferguson, if we open our hearts to the families of coal country and Indian country, if we listen to the hopes and heartaches of hardworking people across America, it’s clear there is so much more to be done.
The truth is we aren’t a single issue country.
We need more than a plan for the big banks. The middle class need a raise.
And we need more jobs. We need jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced. Jobs that provide dignity and a future. We can do it by unleashing the innovation of our entrepreneurs and small businesses. We can do it with new investments in manufacturing, infrastructure, and clean energy, especially here in Nevada which is in the center for solar power.
Somebody, some country is going to be the clean energy superpower in the 21st century. It’s probably either going to be China, Germany, or us, and I want it to be us…
We also have to do more to make it easier for parents to balance work and family and to break down barriers that keep so many people on the sidelines of the economy, especially women.
Don’t you think we’ve waited long enough? It’s time for equal pay for equal work.
And don’t you think it’s time to face head-on the reality of systemic racism and invest in communities that have been left out and left behind. That means reforming our criminal justice system, our immigration system, ensuring that people with disabilities have the same opportunities to work and fully participate in our society. It means to make sure that nothing holds you back, not debt, not discrimination, not a deck stacked for those at the top.
Now, no one could get this done alone, not even the president of the United States. It’s got to be the mission of our entire nation. I have never believed in dividing America between us and them. We are all in this together. We all have to do our part.
So let me say this to the men and women who run our country’s corporations: If you cheat your employees, exploit consumers, pollute our environment, or rip off taxpayers, we’re going to hold you accountable.

But if you do the right things, if you invest in your workers, contribute to your communities, help build a better America, we’re going to stand with you. We’re going to go into future together. We need more jobs. We need more opportunity.
And I want to say this to all the young people out there: I know what you’re up against. If you left college with a ton of loans, it’s not enough just to make college more affordable. You need help right now with the debt you already have. That’s why I have a plan to cut your interest rates and cap payments so you never have to pay more than you can afford.
But I want you to think about this: It can’t be just about what we’re going to give to you. It has to be about what we’re going to build together.
Your generation is the most tolerant and connected our country has ever seen.
In the days ahead, we will propose new ways for more Americans to get involved in national service and give back to our communities because every one of us has a role to play in building the future we want.
Washington is never going to have all the answers. But for every problem we face, somewhere, someone in America is solving it. And we need you to be part of that exciting journey we can make together.
We need the community activist who decides to run for school board, the entrepreneur who stays and builds instead of leaving a hometown that has seen better days. We need the millions of teachers and nurses, police officers and firefighters who get up everyday and do quiet heroic work to make our country a safer, fairer better place.
It’s going to take each of us working together, growing together, looking out for one another and lifting each other up.
Because there’s a basic truth about America. It’s something that Bill and I have been the beneficiaries of, that we have tried to contribute to and do all we could to continue. America can only live up to its potential when each and every American has the chance to live up to your potential too.
So imagine – imagine a tomorrow where no child grows up in the shadow of discrimination or under the specter of deportation, and every child in every zip code gets the education he or she needs and deserves.
Imagine a tomorrow where every parent can find a good job and every grandparent can enjoy a secure retirement, where small businesses thrive and big businesses play by the rules and give more back to the country that has given them so much, where hard work is honored and families are supported and communities are strong.
With your help, that is the tomorrow we will build for our country.
So please join us. Go to HillaryClinton.com become a part of this campaign or text JOIN 47246 right now. Let’s do this together.
Now I’m heading on – I am on my way to Texas. Bill is on his way to Colorado. The fight goes on. The future that we want is within our grasp. Thank you all! God bless you!

Thank you! Thank you! Thank you so much from one end of this state to another.
I am so greatly appreciative because today you sent a message in America when we stand together, there is no barrier too big to break.
We’ve now gone through four early states and I want to congratulate Sen. Sanders on running a great race, and tomorrow this campaign goes national.
We are going to compete for every vote in every state. We are not taking anything and we’re not taking anyone for granted.
I want to thank all the local leaders, legislators, mayors, pastors, organizers, volunteers who have worked their hearts out for this campaign.
I thank all of our great South Carolina friends going back so many years.
I especially want to thank two of your former great Democratic governors, Dick Riley and Jim Hodges.
And I especially want to thank your champion, your statesman in Congress, Jim Clyburn. I am so looking forward to working with the congressman to make the changes that continue the progress that we can build on the records and accomplishments of President Obama.
And to the almost 850,000 people who have contributed what they could, most giving less than $100, I thank each and every one of you.
Now, everyday since Iowa, more and more of you have stepped up. Today, grassroots donors are powering this campaign.
And to the millions of people watching across our country, please join us by making a donation to HillaryClinton.com.

And here’s why because together we can break down all the barriers holding our families and our country back.
We can build ladders of opportunity and empowerment so every single American can have that chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. And then and only then can America live up to its full potential too.
This campaign and this victory tonight is for the parents and teachers in rural South Carolina. They showed me crumbling classrooms in communities too long neglected. We’re going to work together to give our children the education they need and deserve here in South Carolina and across America.
This campaign and our victory is for the entrepreneur who told me more dreams die in the parking lots of banks than anywhere else, and that’s especially true for women and people of color.
So we’re going to work together to give people, particularly young people, the tools you need to start that small business you’ve been dreaming of.
And this campaign and our victory is for the Reverend, the presiding elder of the AME Church who looked at all the violence and the division in our country and asked me the other night, “How are we ever going to strengthen the bonds of family and community again?”
Well, we’re going to start by working together with more love and kindness in our hearts and more respect for each other even when we disagree.
Despite what you hear, we don’t need to make America great again. America has has never stopped being great.
But we do need to make America whole again.
Instead of building walls, we need to be tearing down barriers. We need to show by everything we do that we really are in this together.
Today, too many people at the top, too many corporations have forgotten this basic truth about what makes America great.
Prescription drug companies that increase the price of drugs for no reason than greed and then double and triple bills of folks overnight.
Corporation that use shell games to shift their headquarters overseas for no other reason than to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. Companies like Johnson Controls and auto parts company in Wisconsin that we taxpayers helped to save with the auto rescue in 2008.
Now, let there be no doubt in any boardroom or executive suite across this country, if you cheat your employees, exploit your customers, pollute our environment or rip off the taxpayers, we will hold you accountable.

If you turn your back on America, you’ll pay a price.
But if you do the right thing, if you invest in your workers and in your country’s future, then we will stand with you.
Now together we have to break down all the barriers, not just some. It’s important that Wall Street never threaten Main Street again, no bank can be too big to fail, and no executive too powerful to jail.
But America isn’t a single issue country, my friends. We need more than a plan for the biggest banks.
The middle class needs a raise.
And we need more good jobs. Jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced. Jobs that provide dignity and a path to a brighter future.
We can create those good jobs by building on the progress we’ve made under President Obama. So let’s make new investments in manufacturing and small business, in scientific research, in green energy – enough clean energy to power every home in America.
And don’t let anybody tell you we can’t make things in America. I know we can and I know we will.
Let’s break down barriers that keep people on the sidelines of our economy, especially women.
Don’t you think we’ve waited long enough for quality affordable child care and paid family leave? Don’t you think it’s time for equal pay for equal work?
And let’s break down the barriers that stop our children from getting the best possible start in life. We need to support great teachers and great schools in every zip code.
Let’s break down the barriers holding back our young people, especially the student debt that makes it hard to imagine ever living the life you want.
And we are going to give special support to our historically black colleges and universities, which play a vital role in this state and across our country.

Now, breaking down all the barriers mean we also have to face the reality of systemic racism that more than a half a century after Rosa Park sat and Dr. King marched and John Lewis bled still play a significant role in determining who gets ahead in America and who gets left behind.
We have to invest in communities of color, reform our broken criminal justice and immigration systems.
We have to guarantee opportunity, dignity, and justice for every American.
And tonight, I want to pay tribute to five extraordinary women who criss-crossed this state with me and for me – five mothers brought together by tragedy.
Sabrina Fulton, mother of Trayvon Martin, shot and killed in Florida just for walking down the street.
Lucia McBath, mother of Jordan Davis, shot and killed by someone who thought he was playing his music too loud in his car.
Maria Hamilton, mother of Dontre, shot and killed by police in Milwaukee.
Gwen Carr, mother of Eric Garner, choked to death after being stopped for selling loose cigarettes on the street.
And Geneva Reed-Veal, mother of Sandra Bland, who died in police custody in Texas.
They all lost children, which is almost unimaginable. Yet, they have not been broken or embittered. Instead, they have channeled their sorrow into a strategy and their mourning into a movement. And they are reminding us of something deep and powerful in the American spirit.
By now, we all know the story of Flint, Michigan, how its city’s children were poisoned by toxic water because their governor wanted to save a little money.
But there’s another side to this story in Flint.
It’s a story of a community that’s been knocked down but refused to be knocked out.
It’s hundreds of union plumbers coming from across the country to help install new water fixtures.
It’s students raising funds for water deliveries and showing up in Flint to distribute supplies.
It’s the United Auto Workers and General Motors donating millions of dollars.
We know there are many other Flints out there – communities that have been left out and left behind.
But for every problem we face anywhere in America, someone somewhere is working to solve it.
Our country was built by people who have each other’s backs, who understood we all have to do our part, and that at our best, we all rise together.
Imagine what we can all build together when each and every American has the chance to live up to his or her potential.
Imagine a tomorrow where no child grows up in the shadow of discrimination or under the specter of deportation.
Imagine a tomorrow where every parent can find a good job and every grandparent can enjoy a secure retirement.

Imagine a tomorrow where hard work is honored, families are supported, and communities are strong when we trust and respect each other despite all that divides us.
So please, join us in this campaign for our country’s future. Go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN – J-O-I-N – to 47246 right now.
You know, in one of my first trips to South Carolina during this campaign, I stopped by a bakery here in Columbia. I was saying hello to everybody. I went over to say hello to a man reading a book in the corner. Turned out he was a minister and the book was a Bible. He was studying First Corinthians 13, which happens to be one of my favorite passages. “Love never fails”, it tells us, “Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.”
These are words to live by not only for ourselves but also for our country.
I know sometimes it seems a little odd for someone running for president these days and this time to say we need to more love and kindness in America. But I’m telling you from the bottom of my heart, we do. We do.
We have so much to look forward to. There is no doubt in my mind that America’s best years can be ahead of us. We have got to believe that. We have got to work for that. We have to stand with each other. We have to hold each other up, lift each other up, move together into the future that we will make.
Thank you! God bless you! And God bless America!

Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you! Thank you all so very much!
Well, I’ll tell you this is another Super Tuesday for our campaign.
Thank you, Florida! Thank you, North Carolina! Thank you, Ohio!
You know, although we’re waiting for final results in Illinois and Missouri, we know we will add to our delegate lead to roughly 300 with over 2 million more votes nationwide.
We are moving closer to securing the Democratic Party nomination and winning this election in November.
You know, because of all of you and our supporters across the country, our campaign has earned more votes than any other candidate Democrat or Republican.
And I want to congratulate Sen. Sanders for the vigorous campaign he’s waging.
Now, today all of you in the states where contests were held voted to break down the barriers that hold us all back so every one of us could share in the promise of America, you voted – you voted for our tomorrow to be better than our yesterday. Tomorrow where all of us do our part and everyone has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.
Because that’s how America can live up to its potential too.
Now, we need you to keep working, keep volunteering, keep contributing at HillaryClinton.com.
Please, please join the 950,000 supporters who already have contributed – most less than $100 – because our campaign depends on small donations for the majority of our support. We can’t do this without you. So if you’ve been waiting for the right moment, now’s the time to come join us.
You know, tonight it’s clearer than ever that this may be one of the most consequential campaigns of our lifetimes.
The next president will walk into the Oval Office next January, sit down at that desk, and start making decisions that will affect the lives and the livelihoods of everyone in this country – indeed, everyone on this planet.
Now, I know, I know that easy decisions don’t make it to the president’s desk – only the hardest choices and the thorniest problems.
I saw President Obama wrestle with the decision to send Navy SEALs after Osama bin Laden, the decision to rescue the auto industry, to fight for the Affordable Care Act and so many more.
And so, our next president has to be ready to face three big tasks. First, can you make positive differences in people’s lives. Second, can you keep us safe. Third, can you bring our country together again.

Now, making differences in people’s lives comes first because Americans everywhere are hungry for solutions. They want to break down the barriers holding them back so we can all rise together.
Ask any parent. You’ll hear nothing is more important than making sure their kids have a good school and a good teacher no matter what zip code they live in.
They deserve a president who understands that when we invest in our children’s education, we’re investing in all of our futures.
And young people across America struggling under the weight of student debt find it difficult to imagine the futures they want and they deserve a president who will help relieve them of that burden and help future generations go to college without borrowing a dime for tuition.
And you know, grandparents who worry about retirement deserve a president who will protect and then expand Social Security for those who need it most, not cut or privatize it.
Families deserve a president who will fight for the things that are priorities at home but too often aren’t priorities in Washington – affordable child care, paid family leave, and something we have waited for long enough, equal pay for equal work for women.
And above all, above all, hardworking Americans across our country deserve a president with both the ideas and the know-how to create good jobs with rising incomes right here in our country.
And I am absolutely convinced that we have the tools to do that. That’s why I’ve laid out a program to do what can be done – more good jobs in infrastructure, more good jobs in manufacturing, more good jobs in small businesses, more good jobs in clean, renewable energy.
Good-paying jobs are the ticket to the middle class and we’re going to stand up for the American middle class again. We’re going to stand up for American workers and make sure no one takes advantage of us – not China, not Wall Street, and not overpaid corporate executives.
Now, look, of course every candidate, every candidate makes promises like this. But every candidate owes it to you to be clear and direct about what our plans will cost and how we’re going to make them work. That’s the difference between running for president and being president.
And I’ll tell you, let me tell you that the second big test for our next president is keeping us safe.
We live in a complex and, yes, a dangerous world. Protecting America’s national security can never be an afterthought.
Our commander-in-chief has to be able to defend our country, not embarrass it; engage our allies, not alienate them; defeat our adversaries, not embolden them.
When we hear a candidate for president call for rounding up 12 million immigrants, banning all Muslims from entering the United States, when he embraces torture, that doesn’t make him strong; it makes him wrong.

And yes, our next president has to bring our country together so we can all share in the promise of America. We should be breaking down barriers, not building walls. We’re not going to succeed by dividing this country between us and them.
You know, to be great, we can’t be small. We can’t lose what made America great in the first place.
And this isn’t just about Donald Trump. All of us have to do our part.
We can’t just talk about economic inequality. We have to take on all forms of inequality and discrimination.
Together, we have to defend all of our rights – civil rights and voting rights, workers’ rights and women’s rights, LGBT rights and rights for people with disabilities.
And that starts by standing with President Obama when he nominates a justice to the Supreme Court.
Our next president will face all these challenges and more.
You know, running for president is hard but being president is harder. It is the hardest, most important job in the world, and no one person can succeed at the job without seeking and finding common ground to solve the problems we face.
If we work together, we can make a real difference in people’s lives.
If we reach out to treat each other with respect, kindness, and even love instead of bluster and bigotry, if we lift each other up instead of tearing each other down, there’s nothing we can’t accomplish together.
So please, join me in this campaign. Every vote counts. Every volunteer hour counts. Every contribution counts.
Eight years ago on the night of the Ohio primary, I said I was running for everyone who’s ever been counted out but refused to be knocked out, for everyone who has stumbled but stood right back up, for everyone who works hard and never gives up. Well, that is still true.
Our campaign is for the steel worker I met in Ohio on Sunday night who’s laid off but hoping to get back to work.
It’s for the mother I met in Miami whose five children haven’t seen their father since he was deported. She dreams of a day when deportations end and families are reunited on a path to citizenship in America.
And it is for the mothers I stood with in Chicago yesterday who have lost children to gun violence. They’re turning their sorrow into a strategy and their mourning into a movement. Let’s stand with people who have courage, who have resilience. Let’s stand with everyone who believes America’s best days are ahead of us.
For all of our challenges, I’ve never had more faith in our future. And if we work together, if we go forward in this campaign, if we win in November, I know our future will be brighter tomorrow than yesterday.
Thank you all so very much!

Thank you so much.
It is wonderful to be here and see so many friends.
I’ve spoken at a lot of AIPAC conferences in the past but this has to be one of the biggest yet.
And there are so many young people here – thousands of college students from hundreds of campuses around the country. I think we should all give them a hand for being here and beginning their commitment to this important cause.
You will keep the U.S.-Israel relationship going strong.
You know, as a Senator from New York and Secretary of State, I’ve had the privilege of working closely with AIPAC members to strengthen and deepen America’s ties with Israel.
Now we may not have always agreed on every detail but we’ve always shared an unwavering, unshakable commitment to our alliance and to Israel’s future as a secure and Democratic homeland for the Jewish people.
And your support helped us expand security and intelligence cooperation, developed the Iron Dome missile defense system, build a global coalition to impose the toughest sanctions in history on Iran, and so much more.
Since my first visit to Israel 35 years ago, I’ve returned many times and made many friends.
I’ve worked with and learned from some of Israel’s great leaders although I don’t think Yitzhak ever forgave me for banishing him to the White House balcony when he wanted to smoke.
Now, I’m here as a candidate for president and I know that all of you understand what’s at stake in this election.
Our next president will walk into the Oval Office next January and immediately face a world of both perils we must meet with strength and skill and opportunities we must seize and build on.
The next president will sit down at that desk and start making decisions that will affect both the lives and livelihoods of every American and the security of our friends around the world.
So we have to get this right.
As AIPAC members you understand that while the turmoil of the Middle East presents enormous challenge and complexity, walking away is not an option.
Candidates for president who think the United States can outsource Middle East security to dictators or that America no longer has vital national interest at stake in this region are dangerously wrong.
It would be a serious mistake for the United States to abandon our responsibilities or cede the mantle of leadership for global peace and security to anyone else.
As we gather here, three evolving threats – Iran’s continued aggression, a rising tide of extremism across a wide arch of instability, and the growing effort to de-legitimize Israel on the world stage – are converging to make the U.S.-Israel alliance more indispensable than ever.
We have to combat all these trends with even more intense security and diplomatic cooperation.
The United State and Israel must be closer than ever, stronger than ever, and more determined than ever to prevail against our common adversaries and to advance our shared values.
This is especially true at a time when Israel faces brutal terrorist stabbings, shootings, and vehicle attacks at home.
Parents worry about letting their children walk down the street. Families live in fear.
Just a few weeks ago, a young American veteran and West Point graduate name Taylor Force was murdered by a Palestinian terrorist near the Jaffa port.
These attacks must end immediately, and Palestinian leaders need to stop inciting violence, stop celebrating terrorists as martyrs, and stop paying rewards to their families.
Because we understand the threats Israel faces, we know we can never take for granted the strength of our alliance or the success of our efforts.
Today, Americans and Israelis face momentous choices that will shape the future of our relationship and of both our nations.
The first choice is this: Are we prepared to the U.S.- Israel alliance to the next level?
This relationship has always been stronger and deeper than the headlines might lead you to believe.
Our work together to develop the Iron Dome saved many Israeli lives when Hamas rockets began to fly.
I saw its effectiveness firsthand in 2012 when I worked with Prime Minister Netanyahu to negotiate a cease-fire in Gaza.
And if I’m fortunate enough to be elected president, the United States will reaffirm we have a strong and enduring national interest in Israel’s security.
And we will never allow Israel’s adversaries to think a wedge can be driven between us.
When we have differences, as any friends do, we will work to resolve them quickly and respectfully.
We will also be clear that the United States has an enduring interest in and commitment to a more peaceful, more stable, more secure Middle East, and we will step up our efforts to achieve that outcome.
Indeed, at a time of unprecedented chaos and conflict in the region, America – America – needs an Israel strong enough to deter and defend against its enemies, strong enough to work with us to tackle shared challenges, and strong enough to take bold steps in the pursuit of peace.
That’s why I believe we must take our alliance to the next level.
I hope a new a 10-year Defense Memorandum of Understanding is concluded as soon as possible to meet Israel’s security need far into the future.
That will also send a clear message to Israel’s enemies that the United States and Israel stand together united.
It’s also why as president, I will make a firm commitment to ensure Israel maintains its qualitative military edge.
The United States should provide Israel with the most sophisticated defense technology so it can deter and stop any threats. That includes bolstering Israeli missile defenses with new systems like the Arrow 3 and David’s Sling.
And we should work together to develop better tunnel detection technology to prevent arms smuggling, kidnapping, and terrorist attacks.
One of the first things I’ll do in office is invite the Israeli Prime Minister to visit the White House.

And I will send a delegation from the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs to Israel for early consultations.
Let’s also expand our collaboration beyond security.
Together we can build an even more vibrant culture of innovation that tightens the links between Silicon Valley and Israeli tech companies and entrepreneurs.
There is much Americans can learn from Israel from cyber security to energy security to water security and just on an everyday people to people level.
And it’s especially important to continue fostering relationships between Americans and Israeli young people who may not always remember our shared past. They are the future of our relationship, and we have to do more to promote that.
Many of the young people here today are on the front lines of the battle to oppose the alarming Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement known as BDS.
Particularly at a time when anti-Semitism is on the rise across the world, especially in Europe, we must repudiate all efforts to malign, isolate and undermine Israel and the Jewish people.
I’ve been sounding the alarm for a while now as I wrote last year in a letter to the heads of major American-Jewish organizations.
We have to be united in fighting back against BDS.
Many of its proponents have demonized Israeli scientists and intellectuals, even students.
To all the college students who may have encountered this on campus, I hope you stay strong, keep speaking out, don’t let anyone silence you, bully you or try to shut down debate especially in places of learning, like colleges and universities.
Anti-Semitism has no place in any civilised society – not in America, not in Europe, not anywhere.
Now all of this work – defending Israel’s legitimacy, expanding security and economic ties, taking our alliance to the next level – depends on electing a president with a deep, personal commitment to Israel’s future as a secure, democratic Jewish state and to America’s responsibilities as a global leader.
Tonight, you’ll hear from candidates with very different visions of American leadership in the region and around the world.
You’ll get a glimpse at a potential U.S. foreign policy that would insult our allies, not engage them, and embolden our adversaries, not defeat them.
For the security of Israel and the world, we need America to remain a respected global leader, committed to defending and advancing the international order, an America able to block efforts to isolate or attack Israel.
The alternative is unthinkable.
Yes, we need steady hands – not a president who says he’s neutral on Monday, pro-Israel on Tuesday and who knows what on Wednesday because everything’s negotiable.
Well my friends, Israel’s security is non-negotiable.

I have sat in Israeli hospital rooms holding the hands of men and women whose bodies and lives were torn apart by terrorist bombs.
I’ve listened to doctors describe the shrapnel left in a leg, an arm, or even a head.
That’s why I feel so strongly that American can’t ever be neutral when it comes to Israel’s security or survival.
We can’t be neutral when rockets rain down on residential neighborhoods; when civilians are stabbed in the street; when suicide bombers target the innocent.
Some things aren’t negotiable, and anyone who doesn’t understand that has no business being our president.
The second choice we face is whether we will have the strength and commitment to confront the adversaries that threaten us, especially Iran.
For many years, we’ve all been rightly focused on the existential danger of Iran acquiring a nuclear weapon.
After all, this remains an extremist regime that threatens to annihilate Israel.
That’s why I led the diplomacy to impose crippling sanctions and force Iran to the negotiating table, and why I ultimately supported the agreement that has put a lid on its nuclear program.
Today, Iran’s enriched uranium is all but gone, thousands of centrifuges have stopped spinning. Iran’s potential breakout time has increased and new verification measures are in place to help us deter and detect any cheating.
I really believe United States, Israel, and the world are safer as a result.
But still, as I laid out in a speech at The Brookings Institute last year, it’s not good enough to trust and verify; our approach must be distrust and verify.
This deal must come with vigorous enforcement, strong monitoring, clear consequences for any violations, and a broader strategy to confront Iran’s aggression across the region.
We cannot forget that Tehran’s fingerprints are on nearly every conflict across the Middle East, from Syria to Lebanon to Yemen.
The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corp and its proxies are attempting to establish a position on the Golan from which to threaten Israel, and they continue to fund Palestinian terrorists.
In Lebanon, Hezbollah is amassing an arsenal of increasingly sophisticated rockets and artillery that well may be able to hit every city in Israel.
Tonight, you will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other candidates about Iran. But there’s a big difference between talking about holding Tehran accountable and actually doing it.
Our next president has to be able to hold together our global coalition and impose real consequences for even the smallest violations of this agreement. We must maintain the legal and diplomatic architecture to turn all the sanctions back on, if needed.
If I’m elected, the leaders of Iran will have no doubt that if we see any indication that they are violating their commitments not to seek, develop, or acquire nuclear weapons, the United States will act to stop it and that we will do so with force if necessary.
Iranian provocations like the recent ballistic missile tests also are unacceptable and should be answered firmly and quickly including with more sanctions.

Those missles were stamped with words declaring, and I quote “Israel should be wiped from the pages of history.”
We know they could reach Israel or hit the tens of thousands of American troops stationed in the Middle East.
This is a serious danger, and it demands a serious response.
The United States must also continue to enforce existing sanctions and impose additional sanctions as needed on Iran and the Revolutionary Guard for their sponsorship of terrorism, illegal arms transfers, human rights violations and other illicit behaviors like cyber attacks.
We should continue to demand the safe return of Robert Levinson and all American citizens unjustly held in Iranian prisons.
And we must work closely with Israel and other partners to cut off the flow of money and arms from Iran to Hezbollah.
If the Arab League can designate all of Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, surely it is time for our friends in Europe and the rest of the international community to do so as well and to do that now.
At the same time, America should always stand with those voices inside Iran calling for more openness.
Now, look, we know the Supreme Leader still calls the shots and that the hardliners are intent on keeping their grip on power.
But, the Iranian people themselves deserve a better future and they are trying to make their voices heard. They should know that America is not their enemy. They should know we will support their efforts to bring positive change to Iran.
Now, of course, Iran is not the only threat we and Israel face.
The United States and Israel will also have to stand together against the threat from ISIS and other radical jihadists.
An ISIS affiliate in the Sinai is reportedly stepping up attempts to make in-roads in Gaza and partner with Hamas.
On Saturday, a number of Israelis and other foreigners were injured or killed in a bombing in Istanbul that may well be linked to ISIS. Two of the dead are U.S.-Israeli dual nationals.
This is a threat that knows no borders. That’s why I have laid out a plan to take the fight to ISIS from the air, on the ground with local forces, and online where they recruit and inspire.
Our goal cannot be to contain ISIS. We must defeat ISIS!
And, here is a third choice. Will we keep working toward a negotiated peace or we will lose forever the goal of two states for two peoples?
Despite many setbacks, I remained convinced that peace with security is possible and that it is the only way to guarantee Israel’s long-term survival as a strong Jewish and democratic state.
It may be difficult to imagine progress in this current climate when many Israelis doubt that a willing and capable partner for peace even exists. But inaction cannot be an option.
Israelis deserve a secure homeland for the Jewish people. Palestinians should be able to govern themselves in their own state in peace and dignity.
And only a negotiated two-state agreement can provide those outcomes.

If we look at the broader regional context, converging interests between Israel and key Arab states could make it possible to promote progress on the Israeli-Palestinian issue.
Israelis and Palestinians could contribute toward greater cooperation between Israel and Arabs.
I know how hard all of this is.
I remember what it took just to convene Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas for the three sessions of direct face-to-face peace talks in 2010 that I presided over.
But Israelis and Palestinians cannot give up on the hope of peace. That will only make it harder later.
All of us need to look for opportunities to create the conditions for progress, including by taking positive actions that can rebuild trust.
Like the recent constructive meetings between the Israeli and Palestinian Finance Minsters aiming to bolster the Palestinian economy or the daily on the ground security cooperation between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.
But at the same time, all of us must condemn actions that set back the cause of peace.
Terrorism should never be encouraged or celebrated. and children should not be taught to hate in schools. That poisons the future.
Everyone has to do their part by avoiding damaging actions, including with respect to settlements.
Now America has an important role to play in supporting peace efforts. And as president, I would continue the pursuit of direct negotiations.
And let me be clear: I would vigorously oppose any attempt by outside parties to impose a solution, including by the U.N. Security Council.
There is one more choice that we face together and in some ways it may be the most important of all.
Will we as Americans and as Israelis stay true to the shared democratic values that have always been at the heart of our relationship?
We are both nations built by immigrants and exiles seeking to live and worship in freedom, nations built on principles of equality, tolerance, and pluralism.
At our best, both Israel and America are seen a a light onto the nations because of those values.
This is the real foundation of our alliance, and I think it is why so many Americans feel such a deep emotional connection with Israel. I know that I do.
And it’s why we cannot be neutral about Israel and Israel’s future, because in Israel’s story we see our own and the story of all people who struggle for freedom and self-determination.
There are so many examples.
We look at the Pride Parade in Tele Aviv – one of the biggest and most prominent in the world – and we marvel that such a bastion of liberty exists in a region so plagued with intolerance.
We see the vigorous even ruckus debate in Israeli politics and feel right at home.
And of course, some of us remember a woman, Golda Meir, leading Israel’s government decades ago and wonder what’s taking us so long here in America.
But we cannot rest on what previous generations have accomplished.
Every generation has to renew our values and, yes, even fight for them.
Today, Americans and Israelis face currents of intolerance and extremism that threaten the moral foundations of our societies.
Now, in a democracy we’re going to have differences.
But what Americans are hearing on the campaign trail this year is something else entirely – encouraging violence, playing coy with white supremacists, calling for 12 million immigrants to be rounded up and deported, demanding we turn away refugees because of their religion, and proposing a ban on all Muslims entering the United States.
Now we’ve had dark chapters in our history before.
We remember the nearly 1,000 Jews aboard the St. Louis who were refused entry in 1939 and sent back to Europe.
But America should be better than this, and I believe it’s our responsibility as citizens to say so.

If you see bigotry oppose it.
If you see violence condemn it.
If you see a bully, stand up to him.
On Wednesday evening, Jews around the world will celebrate the Festival of Purim and children will learn the story of Esther, who refused to stay silent in the face of evil. It wasn’t easy. She had a good life and by speaking out she risked everything.
But as Mordecai reminded her, “We will all have an obligation to do our part when danger gathers”.
And those of us with power or influence have a special responsiblity to do what’s right.
As Elie Wiesel said when accepting the Nobel Peace Prize, “Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.”
So my firends, let us never be neutral or silent in the face of bigotry.
Together, let’s defend the shared values that already make America and Israel great.
Let us do the hard work necessary to keep building our friendship and reach out to the next generation of Americans and Israelis so the bonds between our nations grow even deeper and stronger.
We are stronger together, and if we face the future side by side, I know for both Israel and America our best days are still ahead.
Thank you so much!

…Thank you all! Thank you very much! Thank you! Wow! Thank you all. Wow! I am just thrilled to be here.
I am excited about being in Seattle, and I want to thank Mayor [Ed] Murray for his endorsement. I look forward to being a good partner with you on behalf of this great American city. And I will take you up on the offer to have Michael talk to my husband…
I am also very grateful to all of our volunteers who are working so hard in this campaign across this great state, and you’re knocking down barriers, you’re building ladders of opportunity, you’re helping us make the point that this campaign is about both growing and sharing the promise of America.
We are determined that we’re going to give back the hope that every American should have – that their hard work will get them ahead, will enable them to have a better future, will give their children and, yes, their grandchildren the chance to live up to their God-given potential. That’s what we want for America and that’s what we’re doing together in this campaign.
You are all part of something bigger than yourselves. You’re part of the most consequential election we’ve had for a long time in America.
I know that the stakes get higher by the day.
I’m sorry that all the people outside could not be fit into this gymnasium but I saw the excitement that they had while standing in line. Some of them with their children. And I want them to know that if we can get the word out to them, I’m grateful that they came. Sorry they couldn’t get in. But they too understand what is at stake.
I’m also very proud to have won Arizona tonight.

It’s exciting. It’s exciting to see that result come in because, you know, Arizona like Washington, like a lot of the states that are going to be expressing their views and counting their votes in the weeks ahead understand that this is not just a contest between different candidates. This is a contest between fundamentally different views of our country, our values, and our future.
Now, what we saw today in Brussels – the horrible terrorist attack – reminds us of how high the stakes are.
We live in a complex and dangerous world and we need a commander-in-chief that can provide leadership that is strong, smart, and above all, steady in taking on these threats.
The last thing we need my friends are leaders who incite more fear.
In the face of terror, America doesn’t panic. We don’t build walls or turn our backs on our allies.
We can’t throw out everything we know about what works and what doesn’t and start torturing people.
What Donald Trump, Ted Cruz and others are suggesting is not only wrong, it’s dangerous. It will not keep us safe.
This is a time for America to lead, not cower, and we will defeat terrorism that threaten us and our allies.
We will take the fight to ISIS from the air, on the ground with local forces, and online where they recruit and propagandize. We have to dismantle the global terror pipeline, stop the flow of fighters, weapons, and money, and strengthen our defenses here at home.
And we need to work closely with our allies because that cooperation will help make our own country safe.
That is what I will do as president. So this is yet another reason why this election really matters.
And your hard work, your commitment, your optimism about what we could together is what I am counting on.
You know, we need to keep working together. We need to make a point that we’re going into the future with confidence and optimism.
There’s a lot of pessimistic talk. There’s a lot of negativity. It’s as though we aren’t Americans. Nobody can beat us. They can’t beat us anywhere if we’re up to the game, if we’re willing to compete, if we go after what matters to ourselves and our country.
That’s why so many people have joined this campaign.
And I want you to think about the next president, whoever it is, walking into the White House – well, I believe – I do believe I am the most ready of everybody running to take that job.
But I want you to think about this because I know that the caucus on Saturday here in Washington is an important milestone on this path to the nomination and the election, and I am well aware that we have to work hard between now and Saturday to convince people in Washington.
And I want you to ask them with me what they answered to the next president’s three big tests because this will be true whoever it is.
Number one, can you make a positive difference in the lives of Americans?
Number two, can you keep us safe?
And number three, can you bring us together instead of driving us apart?
Now, you know, I’ve given a lot of thought to these tests because I know having traveled across our country that each one of them really matters to Americans.

You know, start with the first – can you make a positive difference?
You know, a lot of folks ask me, “Why are so many people who go to some of these rallies so angry?”
Well, a lot of people are frustrated. A lot of people are worried. A lot of people feel that their best days and therefore our country’s best days are behind us.
And I want you just for a minute put yourselves in their minds. Think back. We had the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Nine million Americans lost their jobs. Five million homes were lost. $13 trillion – trillion dollars – in family wealth was wiped out. A lot of Americans haven’t recovered from that. A lot of Americans haven’t had a raise in 15 years. A lot of Americans worry that life is not going to be better for their kids.
I want you to understand that because sometimes when all we see is the ugliness and these protests, the mean-spiritedness, when we see people running to be president of the United States who are literally inciting bigotry and violence, it’s easy to say, “You know, I’m not even going to pay attention to that.”
But what I want you to know is we’ve got to reclaim the promise of America for all of our people – every single one of them.
And to me, that starts with more good jobs with rising incomes. It includes standing up for unions and the American labor movement.
It means more infrastructure jobs because it’s not just what you see – the roads, the bridges, the tunnels, the ports, the airports, it’s what you don’t see. It’s the deteriorating water systems across American. It’s the leaking pipelines across America. It’s what we saw in Flint, Michigan. And as horrible as that is, I wish I could tell you it’s the only place but it’s not. Children – 500,000 a year – are affected by lead poisoning.
So we’ve got work to do. It’s important work. And it will put millions of Americans to work and you can’t export those jobs. They have to be done right here in Seattle, in Washington, and across the United States.
And we need more manufacturing jobs. There are some who say, “Well, we can’t make things in America.” I was out at Everett today. I met with the machinists and the aerospace workers.
Yes, we can make things better than anybody else can right here in America. But we’ve got to make sure we change the incentives in our tax code, which unfortunately actually encourages people to move jobs out of our country. We’re going to take that on, and we’re going to make sure that we have advanced manufacturing and the good jobs that come with it.
And we’re going to start by making sure that the machinists and the aerospace workers always are making the best planes, doing the most advanced work of anybody in the world.
And we’re going to combat climate change with more clean, renewable energy jobs.
This is one of the most consequential decisions facing us in this election. I am proud that Secretary of State, I began the work with President Obama and our team that lead to the Paris agreement, that made it possible for us to say this has to be a top global priority. But if we don’t fulfill it, it means nothing. It’s just a piece of paper signed by 190 nations.
So we have work to do and I’m proud of the work that President Obama did against implacable hostility from the Republicans in Congress. I will protect, defend, and build on that work. But we’ve got to go further.
I’ve set some big goals. I want to see us deploy a half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term.
And I want enough clean, renewable energy to power every home in America by the end of my second term.
We know how to take on big challenges in our country. It’s time we start acting like it again.

I’m tired of the denial and the deception and the Koch brothers’ manipulation of our political process.
And as we grow our economy, let’s do more for small businesses, particularly young people who want to start small businesses.
And I want to thank your mayor and everybody fighting to raise the minimum wage in Washington.
We need to raise it on the federal level. It is just wrong that anybody who works full-time would still be mired in poverty, and you know, two-thirds of all minimum wage workers are women and let’s finally guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
So I’m telling what I’m going to do. I’m laying it out and we’re going to do it together and that also goes for education.
Every child in this country deserves a good teacher in a good school regardless of the zip code that child lives in.
As the mayor said, I want more early childhood education. I want to be a partner with today’s teacher. I want them to know the president will be on your side as you do the work to give our kids the education and skills they need.
I am also going to launch a campaign with your help, the help of our construction and trade unions and others to enhance more apprenticeship programs, to encourage more young people, to go and seek and obtain the skills they need to be able to be employed.
We have made a grave error in any way undermining the work that is done by carpenters and plumbers and machinists and electricians and welders. This is work that is in demand across our country.
We’re going to need more than a million people right now to fill these jobs. I want us to start doing this again in high schools, community colleges, and apprenticeship programs, which is why I want to make community college free so that young people can afford to get those skills.
And then we’re going to make four-year public colleges and universities debt-free tuition so that you can afford to attend.
I do differ with my esteemed opponent who says free for everybody. I want to concentrate on middle class families, working families, poor families.
Personally, I think if you can afford to send your child to college like Donald Trump, we should not pay for you to send your child for free.
And then we are going to take on the problem of student debt, which is stalking the lives of millions of young Americans.
This is probably one of the most pressing problems that I encounter as I travel around and I ask in crowds like this – how many have student debt? How many? Okay, huge majority. Huge. Absolutely huge majority. Huge – huge majority.
But okay, I want to ask you this: Does anybody here have an interest rate higher than 10%?
I mean, this is outrageous.
8%? How many have 8%? How about more than 6%?
You know, we haven’t had interest rates for most things besides student debt that high in years.
You can refinance your mortgage and get a better deal; you can refinance your car and get a better deal. Corporations can refinance their debt and get a better deal.
I’m going to make it possible for you to refinance your student debt and get that interest rate down.
And then I want to switch to as many of you as we’ll go into income-contingency repayment programs. You know what that is? I’ll tell you.
…

When I graduated from law school, I didn’t have any help going to school. I had to work. I had to borrow money. So I came out with a debt. But both my husband and I were in a contingency-repayment program. We paid it back as a percentage of our incomes.
So I could go to work for the Children’s Defense Fund right out of law school, which was the job that I wanted to do. And I don’t know, I think I made $14,000 a year and I could pay my debt back as a percentage.
I want every one of you to have that chance. And furthermore, I want a date certain where your obligation ends.
Now when I think about health care, I’ll tell you this and I’m proud to have the nurses’ endorsements because you know nurses are on the front lines in [health care] and they see what happens in so many different families and settings.
You know when we were in the hospital with my daughter when she had our granddaughter, Charlotte, I was talking to one of the nurses and the nurse said, “You know, so many of the mothers in here don’t have any time off. They don’t have earned sick days. They don’t have paid family leave.” They can’t afford to take unpaid leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act that my husband signed into law.
And I’ll tell you what, that made a big impression on me because the nurses see everything.
So we’re going to have paid family leave. We’re going to have earned sick days…
…We’re going to make progress on health care. We’re going to get universal health care coverage. We’re at 90% and we’re going to get there. So there’s a big agenda for us to make a positive difference in people’s lives that I want you to be part of.
And secondly, we’ve got to keep ourselves safe. That is something I’m committed to, and it’s not only about stopping terrorist attacks, although clearly that has to be front of mind.
I will do everything to have the kind of safety net that includes law enforcement of all levels, intelligence cooperation, working with our friends in Europe and others to defeat ISIS, to create a chance for everybody to get out from under the threat that terrorism poses.
But here’s what I want to say. Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have made our job harder in the last few days.
You know, Donald Trump saying we need to get out of NATO, the most important defense alliance there has ever been.
Its headquarters in Brussels, we need to modernize it and make it ready to deal with the threats of today, including terrorism and that’s exactly what I will do as president.
And Ted Cruz who said we need to be policing everywhere that Muslims live. I don’t know about you, that is not only offensive; that too is dangerous because we want everybody to feel like we are together on our common defense against terrorism.
So remember when you go to caucus and when your friends go to caucus on Saturday, this is about not only selecting a president but also selecting a commander-in-chief and we need to be sure that we have those smart steady hands because we’re going to face a lot of challenges but also a lot of opportunities that the United States has to lead on.
And finally, the third test – can you bring our country together instead of dividing it?
Well, I feel so strongly that this may be one of the most important issues not just for the president but for all of us.
You know I read an interesting article the other day. The man writing it said, “You know, we now get along with people who differ from us on nearly everything but politics. Look at the progress we’ve made on civil rights, on women’s rights, on gay rights, on all of the tough issues. But when it comes to politics, we don’t want to talk to each other. We want to draw lines.”

Now, I believe we have to seek and find common ground wherever possible. I also believe we have to stand our ground on important matters of principle and values.
But we can’t let our nation be divided. We can’t let a demagogue incite violence, model for our children the kind of bullying behavior that honestly you’d send somebody to time-out if you were in elementary school.
I feel that each of us has a role to play in this.
You know, I’ve been saying we need more love and kindness and respect in America right now. That doesn’t mean we agree with people who have a very different set of political views just for the sake of agreeing. No. But let’s figure out how to work toward at least some potential outcomes that would be good for our country.
I’ll tell you a story. When I was First Lady, you know, after we lost the health care fight because remember before it was called Obamacare, it was called Hillarycare and I took on the drug companies and the health insurance companies.
What we understood is that we had to keep working. You couldn’t get it all to work at once. And so I went to work to get the Children’s Health Insurance Program.
And tonight before coming out here I had a young man say to me – this was before, you know, a long time ago – the late 1990s – ancient history, he said to me, “I want to thank you because you saved my family from bankruptcy because of the Children’s Health Insurance Program.”
I couldn’t have done that if we hadn’t worked with Republicans, if we hadn’t sought and found common ground together.
So as I go through this campaign, I’m going to stand up for what I believe. I’m going to fight for the issues and the plans that I think will help move our country forward.
But I will always say I’ll go anywhere anytime to meet with anyone to find that common ground. If there is good faith, then maybe we make progress – maybe not as much as I would like. But enough that we can solve the problems of some Americans.
That’s what we’ve got to start doing again. We’ve got to be able to point to the results that make people’s lives better. We’ve got to be able to lift each other up, not put people down because they disagree with us or that they don’t have the right to say what they say.
You know, when you go to the caucuses on Saturday, I hope that you will and everybody that you talk with really think about not only the consequences and the stakes of this election but how far we have come together.
I’m proud of the progress we’ve made in America. I’m proud of the rights we have extended to people. I’m proud that we have so much that really has made a difference in the lives of not just Americans but people around the world.
I went to 112 countries when I was Secretary of State, and I saw that even with countries that disagreed with us how they watched us, how they wondered how we did what we did in this big, brawling, pluralistic country of ours, how we held it together, how we made progress. I was always so proud. I don’t ever want to lose that.
I want us to continue to make progress. I want us to continue to seize the future, make it what it can be. And I particularly believe that on behalf of our children.
You know, our volunteers here in Washington prove each and everyday why I believe in what I’m doing and why I know together we can make the differences I’m talking about.
Lillian Ellis [sp] just 14-years-old skipped a sleepover with her friends to get trained as a caucus captain here in Seattle.
Jonathan and James Freeberg [sp], father and son, have been knocking on doors in Kirkland for weeks.
Maria, an immigrant from Ecuador, who dreams of becoming an American citizen has been volunteering 20 hours a week for us in Bellevue.
And Valerie, a caucus captain in Renton relies on Social Security and food stamps to get by. She worries about rising drug prices but she volunteers every other day because she knows we’ve got to make progress together that this campaign is about helping people like her.
You know, it’s easy to say what you’re against. Let’s start saying what we’re for and all the people we’re for and who we want to help and what kind of difference we want to make.
These people believe that America’s best days lie ahead and so do I.
If you believe that, I hope you will come out and caucus for me this Saturday.
Thank you so much Seattle! God bless you! Thank you!

I am delighted to be back here at Stanford. And I will never forget the day that we first brought Chelsea here.
I brought her to visit when she was thinking about schools, but I knew as soon as she saw Stanford that this is where, if she were fortunate enough to be admitted, she would certainly choose to come.
And, of course, I remember when Bill and I brought her here to begin her freshman year, and then the dinner for parents that Mike was referring to. So it’s a great treat to be back.
And now that my daughter is a mother herself—you can imagine—there’s already talk, at least among one or two members of our family, since her husband is also an alum of Stanford, about how good Charlotte would look one day in Cardinal red.
I am delighted to be here with some very distinguished guests. Secretary Shultz, Secretary Perry, thank you both for being here with us. Lanny, thank you. Marcos, thank you, and others. It’s really a great treat for me to be not only at the university, but at this particular institute as well. You have really made Stanford a center for national security scholarship, and that is the principle reason why I am here today.
Yesterday’s attack in Brussels was the latest brutal reminder that our fight against ISIS and radical jihadist terrorism is far from finished.
More than 30 innocent people are dead—men and women, hurrying to catch a plane, or waiting for a train, or meeting a loved one.
Hundreds more are wounded, including three Mormon missionaries from Utah; a U.S. Air Force officer, his wife and four children; and other Americans.

It’s understandable that Americans here at home are worried.
The threat we face from terrorism is real, it’s urgent, and it knows no boundaries. Even as Brussels grieves, the memories of Paris and San Bernardino are painfully fresh as well.
On Saturday, a bombing in Istanbul killed four people, including two U.S.-Israeli dual citizens. Many other places have been targeted by terrorists in the past year alone. Hotels in West Africa. Beaches in Tunisia. A market in Lebanon. A Russian passenger jet in the Sinai.
ISIS is attempting a genocide of religious and ethnic minorities. It beheads civilians. It enslaves, tortures, and rapes women and girls.
Walls will not protect us from this threat. We cannot contain ISIS—we must defeat ISIS.
This will be one of the most important challenges facing the next president, who takes office on January 20.
Our new commander in chief will walk into the Oval Office and find a world of hard choices and complex problems. That president will sit down at that desk and start making decisions that will affect the lives—and livelihoods—of every American, and people around the world.
So, the stakes could not be higher.
Today, I want to emphasize three points.
First, we face an adversary that is constantly adapting and operating across multiple theaters, so our response must be just as nimble and far-reaching.
Second, to defeat this transnational threat, we need to reinforce the alliances that have been core pillars of American power for decades.
And third, we need to rely on what actually works—not bluster that alienates our partners and doesn’t make us any safer.
Let’s begin by being clear about what we are facing: ISIS controls a shrinking but still sizeable territory in Iraq and Syria. It leads a far-flung network that includes affiliates across the Middle East and North Africa, and cells in Europe, Asia, and even here in North America. It’s also part of a broader ideological movement that includes other terrorist groups.
We need to do battle on all these fronts.

Last year, in speeches in New York and Minneapolis, I laid out a three-part plan to defeat ISIS in the Middle East, around the world, and here at home. Recent events have only reinforced the urgency of this mission.
First, we do have to take out ISIS’ stronghold in Iraq and Syria.
We should intensify the coalition air campaign against its fighters, leaders, and infrastructure; step up support for local Arab and Kurdish forces on the ground and coalition efforts to protect civilians; and pursue a diplomatic strategy aimed at achieving political resolutions to Syria’s civil war and Iraq’s sectarian divide.
Second, we must dismantle the global network of terror that supplies money, arms, propaganda, and fighters. This means targeted efforts to deal with ISIS affiliates, from Libya to Afghanistan.
It means going after the key enablers who facilitate illicit financial transactions and help jihadists arrange travel, forge documents, and evade detection.
And it means waging online battles with extremists to discredit their ideology, expose their lies, and counter their appeals to potential recruits in the West and around the world.
Third, we must harden our defenses and build our resilience here at home.
We need to counter each step in the process that can lead to an attack, deterring would-be terrorists and discovering and disrupting plots before they’re carried out.

Our enemies are constantly adapting, so we have to do the same.
For example, Brussels demonstrated, clearly, we need to take a harder look at security protocols at airports and other sensitive so-called “soft sites,” especially areas outside guarded perimeters.
To do all this, we need an intelligence surge—and so do our allies.
We also have to stay ahead of the curve technologically. That does mean working with the brightest minds here in Silicon Valley to more effectively track and analyze ISIS’s social media posts and map jihadist networks online.
When other candidates talk about building walls around America, I want to ask them: How high does the wall have to be to keep the internet out?
And we also have to tackle a thorny challenge that is top-of-mind here in the Bay Area: navigating the security and civil liberties concerns surrounding the encryption of mobile devices and communications.
Impenetrable encryption provides significant cybersecurity advantages, but may also make it harder for law enforcement and counterterrorism professionals to investigate plots and prevent future attacks. ISIS knows this, too.
At the same time, there are legitimate worries about privacy, network security, and creating new vulnerabilities that bad actors—including terrorists—can exploit.
…

There may be no quick or magic fix.
In the Apple case, the FBI may have found a work-around—but there will be future cases, with different facts and different challenges.
So the tech community and the government have to stop seeing each other as adversaries and start working together to protect our safety and our privacy.
A National Commission on Encryption, like Senator Mark Warner and Congressman Mike McCaul are proposing, could help.
And our security professionals could use the advice and talents of technology professionals to help us figure out how we do stay ahead of the terrorists.
Our fight against radical jihadist terrorists will be long, and there is very real risk of future attacks here at home. But pursuing this comprehensive strategy will put us in the best position to defeat ISIS and keep our families and communities safe.
This is a very personal issue for me, having served as a Senator from New York on 9/11.
Having seen the horrors that were produced by a well-planned and executed attack on our country.
Knowing how important it is that we do stay ahead of those who wish to do us great harm, without panic, without paranoia—but with resolve not to give in to the very behavior the terrorists are hoping to engender.
We can’t let fear stop us from doing what’s necessary to keep us safe—nor can we let it push us into reckless actions that end up making us less safe.
For example, it would be a serious mistake to stumble into another costly ground war in the Middle East.
If we’ve learned anything from Iraq and Afghanistan, it’s that people and nations have to secure their own communities. We can—I argue, must—support them, but we can’t substitute for them.

It would also be a serious mistake to begin “carpet bombing” populated areas “into oblivion.” Proposing that doesn’t make you sound tough—it makes you sound like you’re in over your head.
Slogans aren’t a strategy. Loose cannons tend to misfire. What America needs is strong, smart, steady leadership to wage and win this struggle.
To do that, we need to strengthen America’s alliances in Europe, Asia, and around the world. And that is the second point I want to emphasize.
On 9/11, NATO treated an attack against one as an attack against all.
On September 12, headlines across Europe, most notably in Le Monde, proclaimed, “We are all Americans.”
There were very few planes in the air that day—but one was a British jet carrying the UK’s top national security leaders to Washington to offer any help they could.
Now it’s our turn to stand with Europe. We cherish the same values and face the same adversaries—so we must share the same determination.
This is especially true at a time when Europe faces multiple overlapping crises—from President Putin’s aggression in Ukraine, to the massive influx of refugees, to continuing economic challenges, to the rise of right-wing nationalist parties.
We have made so much progress together toward the goal of a Europe that is free, whole, and at peace—and we can’t risk letting it fall apart now.

For decades, Republican and Democratic administrations have understood that America’s alliances make us stronger. Secretary Shultz compared the slow, steady work of building diplomatic relationships to gardening. He knew that when you cultivate effective partners, you can harvest real rewards.
Allies extend our reach, share intelligence, provide troops in conflicts like Afghanistan, offer bases and staging areas around the world for our military, and serve as a bulwark against competitors like Russia and China. And, by the way, both Moscow and Beijing know our global network of alliances is a significant strategic advantage they can’t match.
NATO, in particular, is one of the best investments America has ever made.
From the Balkans to Afghanistan and beyond, NATO allies have fought alongside the United States, sharing the burdens and the sacrifices.
In the 1990s, Secretary Perry helped guide NATO’s expansion based on the alliance’s core tenets of collective defense, democracy, consensus, and cooperative security. They became known as the “Perry Principles,” and they’re still at the heart of what makes NATO the most successful alliance in history.
Turning our back on our alliances—or turning our alliance into a protection racket—would reverse decades of bipartisan American leadership and send a dangerous signal to friend and foe alike.
Putin already hopes to divide Europe. If Mr. Trump gets his way, it’ll be like Christmas in the Kremlin. It will make America less safe—and the world more dangerous.

When it comes to the struggle against ISIS, we need our allies as much as ever.
We need them to be strong and engaged, for they are increasingly on the front lines. London, Paris, Madrid, Brussels, Istanbul—they’ve all been hit by terrorism.
And, as we saw when a terrorist cell in Hamburg carried out the 9/11 attacks: What happens in Europe has a way of making it to America.
So it’s essential that we have strong partners who can work with us to disrupt plots and dismantle networks in their own countries before they lead to attacks in ours.
America needs European intelligence services working hand-in-hand with our own, including where they may have better reach and expertise, like in North Africa.
We need European banks to stop terrorist financing.
We need European planes flying missions over Iraq and Syria, and European special forces helping train and equip local anti-ISIS forces on the ground.
We need European diplomats and development experts working to improve governance and reduce the appeal of extremism across the wide arc of instability that stretches from West Africa all the way to Asia; together, we can do more. And, more urgently, to support moderate voices and stand with Tunisians, Libyans, Kurds, and others in the region who are trying to do the right thing.
And as we should, of course, be closely consulting with Israel—our strongest ally in the Middle East—we also have to extend our consultations to Arab partners as well.
All of this will make America safer, and help defeat ISIS.
There is much we can do to support our European partners: helping them improve intelligence and law enforcement, facilitating information sharing, working more closely at every level.
There’s also more they can do to share the burden with us. We’d like to see more European countries investing in defense and security, following the example Germany and others have set during the Obama administration.
The most urgent task is stopping the flow of foreign fighters to and from the Middle East.
Thousands of young recruits have flocked to Syria from France, Germany, Belgium, and the United Kingdom. Their European passports make it easier for them to cross borders and eventually return home, radicalized and battle-hardened. We need to know the identities of every fighter who makes that trip and start revoking passports and visas.
Stemming this tide will require much better coordination among every country along the way.
Right now, many European nations don’t even alert each other when they turn away a suspected jihadist at the border, or when a passport is stolen.
And Turkey, a NATO ally, still has more work to do to control the border where most foreign fighters cross into Syria.

After the Paris attack, France and Belgium pledged to move forward together on reforms—but that’s difficult without the European Union.
In January, the EU announced a new, integrated counterterrorism center, but intelligence cooperation still lags, and the EU keeps delaying a vote to share traveler information between member states.
It’s actually easier for the United States to get flight manifests from EU nations than it is for EU nations to get them from their own neighbors, thanks to an agreement the U.S. negotiated when I was secretary of state.
There also has to be a special emphasis on identifying and investing in the hot spots—the specific neighborhoods, prisons, and schools where recruitment happens in clusters, as we’ve seen in Brussels.
And it’s time to make good on the promise of establishing a new unified European Border and Coast Guard to strengthen the continent’s external borders, which are under unprecedented pressure from refugees and migrants.
Now, this is a heartbreaking crisis.
Last year, the world was horrified by the photo of a drowned toddler lying on a Turkish beach. In the months since then, hundreds more children have died trying to reach safety.
We’ve seen Europe and Syria’s neighbors in the Middle East struggle under the weight of this challenge. It’s too big for any one country—or even continent—to handle alone.
I’m glad that the EU and Turkey are now working closely together—and the United States should do whatever we can to support that.
The only truly effective answer is to go to the source: End the conflict that is displacing all these people. So we have to support and maintain the ceasefire in Syria. And we should also work with our coalition partners and opposition forces on the ground to create safe areas where Syrians can remain in the country rather than fleeing toward Europe.

In the meantime, it would be wrong to shut our doors to orphans or to apply religious tests for people fleeing persecution. That’s not who we are.
But of course we have to be vigilant in screening and vetting everyone.
We can’t allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and humanitarian obligations—but we also have to be smart and vigilant about how we process people into our country.
It would be doubly cruel if ISIS can not only force families from their homes, and but also prevent them from ever finding new ones.
And that brings me to my third point: In our fight against radical jihadism, we have to do what actually works.
One thing we know that does not work is offensive, inflammatory rhetoric that demonizes all Muslims.
There are millions of peace-loving Muslims living, working, raising families, and paying taxes in this country. These Americans are a crucial line of defense against terrorism. They are the most likely to recognize the warning signs of radicalization before it’s too late, and the best positioned to block it.
Last year in Minneapolis, I met parents, teachers, imams, and others in the Somali-American community who are working with law enforcement and mental health professionals to intervene with young people at risk of being radicalized. Efforts like that deserve more local and national support.
Since 9/11, law enforcement has worked hard to build trustful and strong relationships with American Muslim communities. As the director of the FBI told Congress: Anything that erodes that trust makes their job more difficult.

We need every American community invested in this fight, not fearful and sitting on the sidelines.
So when Republican candidates like Ted Cruz call for treating American Muslims like criminals, and for racially profiling predominantly-Muslim neighborhoods, it’s wrong. It’s counterproductive. It’s dangerous.
As a spokesman for the New York Police Department pointed out last night, that kind of blanket bigotry would treat the city’s nearly 1,000 Muslim police officers as threats. “It’s hard to imagine a more incendiary, foolish statement,” he said.
Commissioner Bill Bratton of the NYPD was even more blunt this morning: He said Senator Cruz “doesn’t know what the hell he’s talking about.”
Demonizing Muslims also alienates partners and undermines moderates we need around the world in the fight against ISIS.
There’s been a lot of talk from both Republicans and Democrats about the importance of building coalitions with Muslim nations.
Having actually done this, I can tell you: Insulting allies and partners is not a good way to start.
Another thing we know that does not work—based on lots of empirical evidence—is torture.
Many intelligence, military and law enforcement experts have attested to this fact. It also puts our own troops—and, increasingly, our own civilians—at greater risk.
I’m proud to have been a part of the administration that banned torture, after too many years in which we had lost our way.
And if I’m president, the United States will not condone or practice torture anywhere in the world.

Even when we’re up against opponents who don’t respect human life or human rights, torture is not the right choice. As Senator John McCain has said: The high standard to which we hold ourselves “isn’t about our enemies; it’s about us. It’s about who we were, who we are and who we aspire to be.”
America is a great nation. And this is a time for American leadership. Smart, strong, steady leadership.
No other country can rally allies and partners to defeat ISIS and win the generational struggle against radical jihadist terrorism.
Only the United States can mobilize common action on a global scale in defense of our people and our values.
America doesn’t cower in fear or hide behind walls. We lead—and we succeed.
Throughout our history, we have stared into the face of evil and refused to blink—whether it was fascism, the Cold War, or hunting down Osama bin Laden. And we will defeat ISIS, too. No enemy or adversary should ever underestimate the determination of the American people.
I will never forget what it was like to arrive in Brussels for the first time as Secretary of State, in March of 2009.
I was on my way to NATO. NATO headquarters was buzzing. Hundreds of young people at the European Parliament had stood and cheered—not for me, but for the idea of American leadership; for the promise of an alliance that delivered unprecedented peace and prosperity on both sides of the Atlantic.
That’s what we need to remember today. Americans cannot—and I believe will not—turn on each other, turn on our allies, or turn away from our principles.
We’re in it for the long haul. And that means we’re going to work together. And we’re going to prevail.
This may be another one of the long struggles we have confronted from time to time in our history, but—like all the rest of those—if we can forge a bipartisan consensus, if we can bring our people to understand what this struggle means to us, if we can maintain our alliances and our partnerships, we will be successful.
And that will benefit not only our country, but the world.
And that, when you boil it down, is what American leadership has to be about.
Thank you.

Thank you so much! Thank you!
Hello, Milwaukee!
Thank you!
…It is great to be here with some of your best – Milwaukee’s mayor Tom Barrett, your fearless Congresswoman Gwen Moore, your fantastic Sen. Tammy Baldwin.
And won’t it be a great day when we can once again talk about your two fantastic senators with Russ Feingold?
I want to thank my friend, Cecile Richards, for being here tonight.
There is a lot about Cecile that I admire, including the poise she showed while speaking truth to power with some of the most fact-adverse Republicans in Congress. Trust me, that is not easy.
And I am so grateful to have been endorsed by the Planned Parenthood Action Fund.
I also want to thank my friend, your neighbor, Sen. Al Franken, for campaigning here for me. And I’m told that Congressman Andre Carson from Indiana is here and Congresswoman Maxine Waters from California.
To all of the cities, state, and local leaders who pour your hearts into building the Democratic Party across Wisconsin, please know this: I will help you take back the governorship and the state legislature.
You see, I am a proud Democrat and I support Democrats up and down the ticket – always have and always will.
And to the union members and representatives of organized labor who have faced a hostile agenda in this state, please know help is on the way.
Now, we’re here tonight because we want together to build a future where every American can live up to his or her God-given potential, no matter where you come from, what you look like, or who you love.

We believe no one who works full-time should have to live in poverty in America and that every American deserves the peace of mind that comes with quality, affordable health care.
We believe that when a governor attacks teachers, nurses, and firefighters, it doesn’t make him a leader; it makes him a bully.
We believe America’s diversity is a strength, not a weakness. And this all makes us join together as Democrats.
And I’m proud of the campaign that Sen. Sanders and I have been running. It’s been hard fought all across our country and here in Wisconsin it’s no exception. But we have tried to stay focused on the issues as compared to the Republicans who have been focused on insults.
And I am deeply honored to have received nearly 9 million votes so far and I’ll tell you that is a million more than Donald Trump has received.
It’s also 2.5 million more than Sen. Sanders but I’m not taking anything or anyone for granted.
I hope to earn your support this Tuesday.
And here’s what I believe about this race.
Anyone running for president faces three big tests. First, can you deliver results that improve people’s lives? Second, can you keep us safe? And third, can you bring our country together?
I think every candidate should be judged by those tests.
So let’s talk for a minute about what it takes to make a real difference for people and families.
I know right now a lot of Americans are frustrated. They’re worried that their best days and that our country’s best days are behind us. And I understand why.
Nine million Americans lost their jobs in the Great Recession. Five million homes were lost. $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out.
And a lot of Americans haven’t recovered from that.
Working people on average haven’t had a raise in 15 years. And they wonder because they tell me they do – how they’re ever going to give their kids the opportunities they deserve.
That’s why I believe we have to break down all the barriers holding people back. We have to come together to build ladders of opportunities in their place. We have to make the promise of America real for all our people.
And that starts with creating more good jobs with rising incomes that provide dignity and pride.
The good jobs in the future are going to end up somewhere in the world. I want them to be here in Wisconsin and across America.
And every candidate owes it to you to come up with real ideas for how to do that.
That’s why I’ve laid out a national manufacturing strategy so we can make it in America.
And just this week, I proposed a new $10 billion investment to bring together workers and unions, businesses and universities and government at every level to create those new jobs.

And I want everybody to come up with their own manufacturing plan because when you think about it, this election should be held, carried out, fought over agendas.
What is it you say you’re going to do? And how do you expect to get it done?
I’ve also offered specific reforms to force companies that ship jobs overseas to give back every penny in tax breaks they’ve ever got right here at home.
And if they try to move their headquarters to a foreign country do skip out on their tax bills, we’re going to slap a new exit tax on them and put the money they have to pay up to work in communities that they want to leave behind.
I’ve also laid out approaches that will make it harder for Wall Street to force businesses to treat workers as costs to be cut instead of assets to be invested in.
And it’s important we keep our eye on where a lot of the problems for tomorrow are coming from.
Let’s reward companies that provide high quality training and share profits with their employees. That’s the kind of approach that will begin to push back on quarterly capitalism and the pressures from activist shareholders and others who are only interested in just stripping companies of their assets, including their employees.
So I will lead the fight against Republican attacks on President Obama’s financial reforms under the Dodd-Frank legislation.
In fact, I don’t think the president gets the credit he deserves for saving this economy and cracking down on Wall Street.
We’re going to protect that progress and go even further.
And yes, we need smarter, fairer trade policies.
Now, there have been a lot of distortions of my record on trade. So tonight, I want to set things straight.
To every worker in Wisconsin and every worker across America, if I am fortunate enough to be your president, I will stand with you. I will have your back. And I will stop dead in its tracks any trade deal that hurts America.
And what I want you to know is I opposed when I was in the Senate and actually had a vote, I opposed the only multi-lateral trade deal that came up – it was called CAFTA – because I thought it was bad for American jobs.
And as Secretary of State, I fought for American manufacturers against China’s cheating.
And then when I finally had the chance to take a look at the final Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, I opposed it because I couldn’t look in the eye of any American worker and say this deal will raise your wages.
Now it is true that Sen. Sanders is very consistent. He’s opposed all trade deals all the time. But I don’t agree with that either.
Because when trade is done right, it helps put thousands of Wisconsin companies in a better position to export billions of dollars worth of products and to create good-paying jobs.

So this is my opinion, we need a president who doesn’t just rail against trade or who doesn’t enforce trade but a president who knows how to compete against the rest of the world and win for America and for American workers.
That’s what I did when I was a senator. It’s why I have so many people who go to bat for me, who talk about why they trust me, why they count on me. Because I stood up for them.
I stood up against unfair treatment by China and others.
I testified for steel workers against dumping of steel in our country.
I want you to know when I am president, if I am so fortunate enough to be there, no one will take advantage of us, not China, not Wall Street, and not overpaid corporate executives.
But I believe we can’t stop there. It’s not enough for us to tell you those of us running what we’re against. We’ve got to tell you what we’re for.
You know, we need to make investments in education and training to give Americans the skills they need to succeed at the good jobs of the future.
That starts with being sure all our kids have access to good schools and good teachers from early childhood through high school and beyond no matter what zip code they live in because when we invest in our kids’ education, we’re investing in our country’s future, we’re creating a stronger economy.
We know that still today a worker with a college degree earns half a million dollars more over their working lifetime and when we invest in higher education, it enriches lives beyond the classroom. It allows innovation to spread from campus labs to businesses throughout the state and the country.
This is a principle so fundamental to this state that it’s called the Wisconsin Idea.
You know, I was born in Chicago. I grew up in the suburbs. I came to Wisconsin a lot when I was a young person. Came to church camp. I came to Girl Scout camp. We would travel around Wisconsin on little mini weekend vacations.
And I really loved how beautiful state was, and as I got older and I learned more about the progressive tradition of Wisconsin, I became such an admirer. I thought, “Wow, Wisconsin was ahead of the curve on so many important issues that really improved lives for Americans, stood up for fundamental rights.” And the Wisconsin Idea just sparked my imagination.
So it is terrible to see the damage Gov. Walker and his allies in the legislature have done in just five years. They have cut hundreds of millions dollars from Wisconsin’s colleges and universities. They’ve rolled back financial aid. They even blocked a proposal to help people refinance their student debt.
…

So instead of investing in higher education, they’re gutting it. This is so wrong and it has to stop because a world-class education should be the birthright of every child, of every person in Wisconsin, of every American, not a privilege reserved for those who can afford it.
And Sen. Sanders and I both agree on this. We want to help more young people get a quality affordable college education, but we have different ideas about how to do that.
Under my plan, you won’t have to borrow a dime for tuition at any public college. You’ll be able to refinance existing debt at more affordable rates, which will save millions of people thousands of dollars.
And because my plan is a compact, we’ll work with states and schools to control costs and provide incentives for greater public investments in higher education over time.
Now, by contrast, my opponent is counting on Gov. Walker and the legislature to come up with $300 million in new funding for higher education up front. That’s ironic because that’s how much Gov. Walker wanted to cut last year. He ended up, as I’m told, cutting $250 million.
So if your free college plan depends upon Republican governors like Gov. Walker, that’s going to take some major change of heart.
Now, I do believe in death bed conversions. So, maybe it will come to pass. But I’m not counting on that. I want you to get debt-free tuition regardless of what your Republican governor has to say about it.
And besides, if your ideas won’t get passed in the Congress we have, or they won’t work because the numbers don’t add up or they depend upon Republicans, well then we’re not going to give people the help they need right away. That’s what I want to do. I think that’s what it’s supposed to be about – how are we going to help you right now.
And there’s one more pillar of a good jobs agenda and that is getting serious about supporting unions.
Unions helped build the strongest middle class in the history of the world.
Just think about it. Think about the history here in Wisconsin. Unions led the fight for affordable health care, safe working conditions, better wages.
And today, they are at the forefront of the movement to raise the minimum wage which would lift millions of families out of poverty.
But here in Wisconsin, Gov. Walker has spent the last five years stripping workers of their rights, limiting collective bargaining, and devastating public unions. You’ve seen that first hand.
And you know, these attacks on unions aren’t just bad for unions and their members. They’re bad for everybody. They drive down wages for everybody. They undermine the kind of changes that we need for everybody. They stop our progress.
And what’s really scary is Ted Cruz and the other Republicans say they want to do across the country what Scott Walker has done here – impose a national right to work law that would depress wages and benefits, undercut unions, concentrate power in the hands of corporations and their allies.
This is something else that is not only wrong but we must stop them from ever having the chance to try that.

Organized labor will always have a champion in the White House if I’m elected president.
In fact, all Wisconsinites and Americans will have a president who helps break down all the barriers holding Americans back, not just some but all.
Now, look, taking on income inequality is absolutely critical. But so is taking on racial inequality and discrimination in all of its forms.
And so is standing up to the gun lobby and fighting for common sense gun safety reforms.
Now, most people don’t have the luxury of living in a single issue world. We face a complex set of intersectional challenges. And our next president has to be able to take them all on in order to make a real difference in people’s lives.
And the second big test for our next president is keeping our country safe.
At a time when terrorists are plotting new attacks and countries like Russia, China, and Iran are making aggressive moves, protecting America’s national security can’t be an afterthought.
Our next president has to be just as passionate about defending our country as about fixing our economy.
On the Republican side, what we’re hearing is truly scary.
When Donald Trump talks casually about using torture and nuclear weapons or when Ted Cruz calls for treating American Muslims like criminals and religiously profiling their neighborhoods, that does not make Trump and Cruz sound strong; it makes them sound in over their heads.
You know, loose cannons tend to misfire. And in a dangerous world, that’s a gamble we cannot afford.
But the test the Republican candidates fail most spectacularly is the third one. Instead of bringing us together, they seem determined to divide us even further.
Their entire campaigns are based on pitting us versus them.
Donald Trump plays coy with white supremacists. He wants to round up millions of Latino immigrants and kick them out of the United States – a nation built by immigrants. He wants to ban all Muslims from entering America – a country founded on religious freedom.
Now, a lot of Republicans may be wringing their hands over the rise of Donald Trump but look at Wisconsin and it’s clear Mr. Trump is just saying what many other Republican politicians have long believed.
You have seen Gov. Walker pit Wisconsinites against one another for years, scapegoating teachers, demonizing public workers, going after unions, claiming they’ve destroyed our country.

He’s made it his personal mission to roll back women’s rights. He’s defunded Planned Parenthood and banned abortion after 20 weeks with no exceptions for victims of rape and incest.
He defends burdensome medically unnecessary and unconstitutional Texas-style regulations to restrict women’s rights to make our own health decisions.
And right now, right now, there is a Walker-appointed judge running for the highest court in this state.
She has actually said – I had to read this three times – she has actually said birth control is morally abhorrent and doctors who provide it, namely birth control, and women who use it, namely birth control, are party to murder.
Let me say that again. She compared birth control, which millions of women use every year, to murder.
There is no place on any Supreme Court or any court in this country, no place at all for Rebecca Bradley’s decades-long track record of dangerous rhetoric against women, survivors of sexual assault and the LGBT community.
So tonight, I am adding my voice to the chorus across Wisconsin saying no to discrimination, no to hate speech, and no to Bradley.
This is not some sideshow or distraction. The assault on women’s reproductive rights is a serious issue when states across America are doing everything they can to put up new barriers, holding back to women’s access to health care and when the Supreme Court is considering the biggest challenge to Roe v. Wade in a generation, which is why we need to stand behind President Obama and his right to fill that vacancy on the court.
Every Republican running for president wants to make abortion illegal, and it’s not enough simply to oppose a tax on women’s rights. We need leadership to defeat them.
Now, when I talk like this and I often do, Republicans accuse me of playing the gender card. Well, if fighting for equal pay, paid family leave, and Planned Parenthood is playing the gender card, then deal me in.

You know, I come to these issues as a woman, a mother, a grandmother, a lawyer, a former First Lady, senator, Secretary of State, and I’ve traveled to parts of the world where government control over women’s bodies consigns them to second class status.
I’ve been in the trenches alongside groups like Planned Parenthood and NARAL for decades, fighting to protect reproductive rights, women’s autonomy, women’s equality to make their own decisions here at home and around the globe. And I’m very honored that they have endorsed me in this campaign because I will keep fighting.
I will fight against anyone, anywhere, who wants to set women’s lives and rights back.
We are going to keep going forward. That is the direction that we will head together.
Now, for me, everything I’ve heard from Donald Trump, Ted Cruz, the other Republicans have convinced me they have no respect for women or our rights.
One of my favorite Americans, Maya Angelou, said, “When someone shows you who they are, believe them.”
Well, today’s Republican leaders are showing us who they are and we should believe them.
We need to stand up to them at every level. We know they’re going to come at us with every possible insult and smear. They’ll do, say, and spend whatever it takes to try to get the White House back.
Now, this may be obvious to you but I think we need a nominee who’s been tested and vetted already.
And for 25 years, they’ve thrown everything they could at me but I’m still standing.
And I am ready to take on this fight and win with you and for you.
So yes, we need to keep a Democrat in the White House but we can’t stop there. If I’m fortunate enough to earn the Democratic nomination, I will have your back against Gov. Walker and the Tea Party legislature here in Wisconsin. I will campaign to elect Democrats at every level.
Together, we’ll take back the state legislature, and in 2018 we will defeat Scott Walker.
And I’m the only candidate in this race who’s pledged to raise money to help build our party. I want to be your partner for the long haul, not just when I’m on the ballot, not just in election year, because we’re going to take back the state, this progressive state…
So my friends, please us. You can join by texting JOIN to 47246 or go to HillaryClinton.com. Contribute what you can. But most importantly, I need your support on Tuesday in the primary. Please come out and vote.
Come out and vote for results that will make a positive difference in people’s lives. Come out and vote for a commander-in-chief that will keep our country safe. Come out and vote for someone who will and as she has always done find common ground while standing my ground.
Let’s tear down all the barriers holding us back. Let’s win! Let’s keep being progressives and making progress together! Thank you and God bless you!
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you so much!
Wow! I am thrilled to be here at Carnegie Mellon University and to be in this great American city, as the mayor so rightly said, a city that has not only built bridges but moved into the future, demonstrating absolutely that you can have resilience if you are resourceful. If you don’t give up, you keep working together we can make it here in Pittsburgh and America.
I come out of a tradition of American progressivism which believes with all our hearts that we are one country, one people, one future, and we have to work with each other, lift each other up. We have to respect each other. We have to demonstrate by what we do that our diversity is an asset; it makes us the luckiest nation in the world to have the talents, the dreams, the aspirations of countless people.
But what I want to do if I’m so fortunate as to be your president is to knock down every barrier that stands in the way of any American being able to fulfill his or her God-given potential.
Every American deserves the building blocks of a personal future that will help us build America’s future.
So I’ve been very clear in this campaign: I take a back seat to nobody when it comes to being a progressive. But I do believe if you are a progressive, you need to make progress. You’ve got to get things done. You’ve got to bring people together. And that’s what I intend to do.
You see, I think there are three big tests the next president has to meet.
And if you think about it, you’re actually doing a big job interview. You want to know who are these people running for president? Where do they come from? What do they believe? What have they done in the past? What have they not just said but what have they accomplished? And can we count on them? Can we count on them to stand up for Americans and America?
And so here are these tests? Number one, can the next president actually deliver results that make differences – positive differences – in the lives of Americans of all ages? You’ve got to be able to ask that.
Well, I think one of the ways you’d look is “What have you done already? Who have you helped? Who have you fought for? Who have you taken on? Who have you stood up against?”
Now, the second test is “Can you keep us safe and continue to lead the world on behalf of American values?”
And the third is “Can you unify America? Can you bring us together? Can you end the divisiveness that has become all too common in our politics?”
So when I think about producing results, I think about my grandfather who came with his family as a young immigrant to northeast Pennsylvania, to Scranton.
And then his sons went to college – Penn State – and when they got out of college – I know it’s a little school up the road – when they got out of college, they had a better future and my dad was a small businessman
And my mom had a really tough upbringing but she got through it and she showed resilience and grit that was such a great example to me.
Now, every one of us has a story. Your own families – you’ve seen the struggles, maybe not in your time but in the prior generations.
And what’s been so extraordinary about America – this amazing experiment – is that we delivered. We weren’t perfect and we had a lot of problems to overcome, but we delivered and we never gave up and we just kept going.
And yes, sometimes we fell short of our own dreams but that didn’t stop us.
So what I want you to understand as I look out at all of you, particularly those in front of me, this election is much more about your future than anything else.
It’s about what kind of country will be waiting for you as you make your decisions over the next years and what kind of world will be out there.
So I want you to imagine with me what we can build together.
Imagine an economy that creates enough good paying jobs for every American to feel that he or she counts, to have the purpose and dignity that comes with a good job with a rising income.
Imagine that we put millions of Americans to work again, fixing our infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our airports. Not only what we can see but what we can’t see. No person in America should ever drink water contaminated by lead or anything else.
Imagine that we once again become the manufacturing engine of the world, that we are building what the world needs, what is creating our future.
I was just over at the Robotics Institute and I saw the extraordinary work they are doing in medicine, in manufacturing, in the kind of home care delivery that will be part of our future because of the work done at this great university by the faculty, by the students.
I want us once again to believe that we can make the future by making the goods that we then can export around the world.
I know we can do this because not only in the Robotics Institute but in many places across our country I have seen that future. I know what we can accomplish.
But we’ve got to make sure our tax code rewards that kind of work. We invest in research again at the level that we should from the federal government.
So that’s why for both infrastructure and manufacturing, I’ve laid out very specific plans about how to do this.
We need a national infrastructure bank that can continue to fund the kind of work that needs to be done in our country and in manufacturing.
I have a $10 billion plan that will invest in the kind of inventions and productivity increases that can ride out of this great university and put people to work.

I care passionately about this because I actually listen to the scientists.
And when you ask the Republicans who are running, you know, they all say “Well, I’m not a scientist.”
But I bet Carnegie Mellon could help teach them about climate change and what it means for our country.
But it’s not only because we face this existential threat but because there are economic opportunities if we put our heads together and work to create them.
I was there in 2009 – President Obama and I had to crash a meeting in Copenhagen during one of the climate conferences. Literally had to stalk the Chinese and the Indians.
They kept telling us they couldn’t meet with us. They said, “Well, we’re on the way to the airport.”
On the way to the airport? Meeting’s not over.
So we sent out scouts through this huge convention center and word came back. They’re way in the back. They’re having a secret meeting. So the president and I said, “Well, I think we’d like to attend.”
So off we went and they had been dodging and avoiding us for days. So we marched up those stairs and those security guards were saying, “No! No! No!” and President Obama and I just kept smiling, “Hi! Hi! Hi!”
And the room they were in was all, you know, covered with curtains so you couldn’t see who was in there. And so the president just kind of went up and pushed through the security guard’s arm. And then his arm went back up and so I ducked under the security guard’s arm.
And we got into the room, and the president said, “We’ve been looking for you.”
And then we pulled up chairs and then we sat down and we said, “Let’s reach some agreements so we can start to move the world toward actually facing up to dealing with and reversing the effects of greenhouse gas emissions.”
And that’s why I was thrilled when 195 countries signed the agreement in Paris.
My opponent said oh, no, he didn’t like it. It wasn’t good enough.
You know, don’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We finally got 195 countries onboard.
So now, here’s our challenge. Some country is going to be the 21st century clean energy super power.
As things stand right now, I think it’s going to be either Germany, China, or us. I want it to be us. And I want Carnegie Mellon to help lead the way.
And I’ll tell you what. I’ve set two big goals. I’ve set a lot of them about climate.
I want a North American climate agreement. We need to be working with Canada and Mexico.
As we re-do our grid, we need to be understanding how we’re going to challenge states on top of the president’s clean power plan to go even further.
And I’ve said let’s have half a billion more solar panels deployed by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home by the end of my second term.
These are jobs that have to be done right here in Pennsylvania and across the United States. And these are opportunities for us.
And I really challenge all of you to think about what each of you can do to contribute to our efforts to take on what is the 21st century global challenge.
Now, I believe too that as we move forward with these big opportunities, we’ve got to do more for small businesses, especially to help young people start their small businesses, follow their dreams.
I have been told and I believe it to be true that Carnegie Mellon has the best return on federal dollar research money coming into any higher ed institution in the country.
I want to unleash that. I want to see millions of new American small businesses because that is where most of the new jobs will come from. So I want to open up opportunities for you.
I also want our economies to be fairer. So imagine that people who work full-time get paid a minimum wage that doesn’t end up in poverty at the end of the year.
And imagine that finally women get equal pay for the work we do.
This is not just a women’s issue. This is a family issue.
If you have a wife or a mother or a sister or a daughter who’s working and they’re not being paid fairly and equally, when they’re at the store, when they’re at a supermarket checkout line, the cashier doesn’t say, “Okay, you only have to pay 78 cents on the dollar.”
Or if you’re an African-American woman, “You only have to pay 68 cents on the dollar.”
Or if you’re a Latino woman, “You only have to pay 58 cents on the dollar.”
Last time I checked there was no woman’s discount for failing to get equal pay in the first place.
Now, everything I’ve just said, the Republicans are against. Every single thing.
And you know, I’m proud that we’ve run an issue-oriented campaign in the Democratic primary.
As far as I can tell, the Republicans have run an insult-oriented campaign.
But make no mistake about it. They are going to do everything they can to take back the White House.
And if they get the White House plus a Republican Congress, we will not recognize our country.
This is one of the most consequential elections. We have to build on the progress that President Obama has made and we’ve got to go further.
And here’s one of those inconvenient facts that you might want to share with your Republican friends. Our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
I mean, we don’t have to go back to ancient history. During the 1990s under my husband’s presidency at the end of eight years, we had 20 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody, not just people on the top – middle class families, working families, poor families. The median family income went up 17% in those eight years. And the median African-American income went up 33% because there were so many jobs.
And we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus. Pretty hard to beat that record.
But I’ll tell you what, you know, the Republicans – you give them credit for consistency. They are consistently wrong when it comes to the economy.
So in comes George W. Bush. I was in the Senate representing New York. I stood up on the Senate floor. I said they don’t want to take us back before the Clinton years. They want to take us back Franklin Roosevelt. They want to take us back before Teddy Roosevelt. They were slashing taxes. They were absolutely taking their eyes off the financial markets and the mortgage markets.
And we know what happened. The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for digging us out of the ditch that the Republicans put us in.
Well, we’re not going to let them get away with it.
Because it may be uncomfortable for them but we have history, the facts, and common sense on our side.
So that’s why I want us to build on the progress we’ve made but go further.
And a key to an economy I imagine that we can create is education. And I think we have to start with early childhood education.
When I got out of law school, I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund. And working for children and giving children the chance and evening the odds for every child is really at the core of what I believe we must do.
So for me, making sure that every kid has a chance to fulfill that potential is critical to our economy, critical to our democracy.
And that’s why we need universal pre-K and why we need to help kids so that when they get to school, they’re prepared and ready to actually learn.
And when we’re looking at elementary and secondary education, I want to be a good partner with our nation’s public school teachers. I want to give them the support that they need.
You know, before I came out here, I had the incredible honor of meeting a family – a family of a young high school student from here in Pittsburgh who went to Woodland High School. Her name was Kaylee McDowell [sp].
And I met the family because Kaylee had been an ardent supporter of mine. And she’d come to meet me when I’d be here in Pittsburgh even when she was just a little girl, and it was her dream to someday go into politics herself.
So tragically, Kaylee had a disease that just wasn’t properly treated in the very beginning, and she passed away just a few days ago.
And the school actually called off – the school district called off school because she was the kind of young woman that everybody knew and everybody liked. She was popular but she also was kind to the kids who weren’t.
And the teachers told her parents who I met with, her grandparents, her aunts and uncle, and her little brother that they were sure that Kaylee would have realized her dreams.
And I wanted to just mention her because she won’t be able to fulfill those dreams for the kind of world, the kind of country she wanted to see. But every one of us can do our part.
And for those in education, it is such an important role and I want to be a good partner. And I want to give young people the chance to be able to afford to go to college without drowning in debt. Every single young person.
I know we can do this because right now it’s just not fair. It’s wrong. Too many kids are being shut out. Or they start and they can’t finish. Or they never graduate. Not because they’re not trying, not because they’re not able – they can’t afford it.
And then if they do get out, they often end up with a huge debt.
How many of you have student debt?
Yeah, exactly. Well, I want you to be able to get out from under it. So here’s what I want to do.
In addition to having debt-free tuition for people going to college, if you come out with debt, I want you to be able to refinance that debt to save thousands of dollars, to get it down just like the way you can refinance a mortgage or a car payment.
And we’re going to revamp the whole student aid industry because I want people to have the chance I did. Because when I got out of law school and I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, I made very little money. But I didn’t care; I wanted to do that work. But I was also fortunate because I was in a plan at that time where I could pay back my debt as a percentage of my income.
I want you to have that chance.
And then I want to end your debt after a certain number of years. Maybe 20 years you’re done even if you still have unpaid debt ahead of you.
And we are going to get the harassing bill collectors out of your life and we’re going to end the practice of the government making money off of lending money to kids to go to school.
And we’re going to continue to work on the Affordable Care Act to make sure that we get the costs down and we expand the opportunities under it and take on high prescription drug costs.
Now, again, everything I’ve just said, Republicans don’t agree with.
And they also want to limit our rights – all of our rights.
I want you to know where I stand. I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions.
And I will defend Planned Parenthood against the partisan attacks that the Republicans are throwing at them.
And I will defend marriage equality and end discrimination against the LGBT community.
I will defend voting rights which are under attack by states across our union.
And I will do everything I can to either reverse or pass a constitutional amendment to absolutely end [Citizens United] and its corruption on our political system.
You know, a lot of people say they’re against it and I take it really personally. It was about me. It was one of the many, many, many, many attacks that the right wing has waged against me by this group Citizens United.
And they were, you know, once again making stuff up about me and running, you know, pretend documentaries about me. And they were told they couldn’t do it.
So they appealed to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court said “Oh, yes of course. Speech equals money. So the more money you have, the more speech you have.”
Somehow I don’t think that was part of the logic behind the First Amendment.
So I think this is truly one of the worst decisions ever in our history.
We’re also going to work hard on a range issues the Republicans are also against.
I do not believe we should privatize Social Security; we have to extend the life of the Social Security trust fund.
We should fix the problems with the Veterans Administration, not privatize it.
We should keep working for comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
And we should bring the country together to stand up to the gun lobby to get common sense gun safety reforms.
So we have a big agenda. And it’s important when we imagine that future we want for you to think “Okay, who can deliver?”
You know, before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare. Right?
I have been in the trenches fighting for opportunity, for justice, for fairness, for equality my entire adult life. And I am proud to continue that fight because it’s at the core of who we are as Americans.
So, we need to stand up and make sure our voices and our votes count.
And the second test is “Can you keep us safe?”
And here you have to recognize you’re voting for a president and a commander-in-chief.
National security is not an afterthought. It is a core responsibility of the presidency. And it is essential that we do everything we can to lead the world, to bring it together, to further our interests, advance our values, and keep us safe at home.
And as a senator from New York, I wanted to bring him to justice.
And so I advised the president to go forward but the president had to make the decision. And President Obama made the right decision.
Now, finally, the third test is “Can you bring us together?” And boy, do we need that right now.
You know, when I listened to the rhetorics coming out of Donald Trump’s campaign it is deeply disturbing because it is intended to set people against one another. It is intended to incite prejudice and paranoia. And it is even intended to incite violence as we have seen.
It is so contrary to who we are and who we must be if we’re going to own the future.
And I intend our country to own the future, to make the future, to be the future.
So let me tell you I will go anywhere, anytime, meet with anyone to find common ground. I did it as First Lady. I did it as senator. I did it as Secretary of State.
You know, we weren’t successful on health care reform, I got back up and said, “Okay, what can we do?” You always have to look and determine “What can we do?” That is the progressive tradition.
So I worked with Democrats and Republicans and we created the Children’s Health Insurance Program and eight million children got health care for the first time in many instances.
And when I was in the Senate, I worked with I think practically every Republican. I worked to find that common ground. Sometimes it was only a sliver of ground.
But that’s our obligation in public life. We don’t have the luxury as some do in dictatorships or religious theocracies to say “My way or no way.” That’s not the way a democracy is supposed to work.
So we made progress. Sometimes way too slowly to satisfy me.
And when I was Secretary of State, I helped to negotiate a nuclear arms treaty with Russia to reduce the number of nuclear weapons on both sides, which remains the biggest threat – the biggest immediate threat – that our world faces. And we got the agreement signed but we had to get two-thirds vote in the Senate.
That meant I had to get 13 Republicans to vote. And so I started working on it. I just kept working and working and working. It’s kind of a dull, boring but necessary kind of work. You know, you just get up everyday and you think, “How can I push this forward an inch or two? Maybe I can even get six or seven inches if I’m lucky?”
Well, I got those votes. We got that treaty. The world is safer because we lowered the number of nuclear weapons in Russia and in the United States.
So here is what I’m asking you. I’m asking you to imagine this future with me because I want your support of course in this upcoming primary on April 26th. But I also will want it if I’m fortunate enough to be the nominee in November.
But I’ll tell you when I really want it – I really want it when I’m sworn in president and we all begin to work together to fix these problems, to make the future happen.
So, Carnegie Mellon, Pittsburgh, Western PA, please come support me on April 26th and I will fight for and support you for the next four to eight years.
Thank you and God bless you!

Thank you so much! Oh my gosh, it is so great to be in New York and to be up here in the capital region.
I am so proud to be standing on this stage with two friends and former colleagues. I’m grateful for their service, their leadership and their support.
I was listening to Paul as he was talking about the work we did together. And it’s absolutely that he has tackled some of the most difficult challenges facing our state and our country.
And now he is taking on another difficult challenge. He is focused on fixing the infrastructure of our water systems here in New York and across America. And he is trying to get support from the Congress and I will do everything I can if I’m fortunate enough to be your president to make sure you do.
You know, when you think about all of the challenges we face here in America and around the world, although it may not be in the headlines water is one of them.
That’s why we’ve got to protect our water resources. I was proud to work with so many to clean up the Hudson.
We also have to make sure that water systems across this state like Hoosick Falls and others are clean and pure so that we can take absolute confidence in the water we drink and use.
And New York is in such a critical position because so much of the rest of the country doesn’t have enough water. We have to be good stewards of our water.
And so Paul, I look forward to working with you.
And I have to tell you, it was a really hard decision for me to leave the Senate.
I adored being your senator. I loved representing New York.
It was the greatest honor imaginable that the people of New York took a chance on me in the 2000 election. Let me serve you and then re-elected me in 2006.
And when President-elect Obama asked me to be Secretary of State, I said “I’m so honored. I’m so flattered, Mr. President-elect. But I love representing New York in the Senate.”
And he said, “Well, with all the problems we’re inheriting from the Bush administration, I trust you to be my Secretary of State.”
And I told him not once but twice that although I understood the importance of the job, I wanted to represent all of you in the Senate.
And so he said to me, “I don’t want to talk to you again until you say yes.”
So I said to my husband, “You know, I’m so flattered the President-elect has asked me and I told him no twice and he keeps telling me that he doesn’t want to talk to me until I say yes.”
And Bill looked at me and he goes, “Well, I asked you to marry me twice. You said no. And I said, ‘Let me know when you’re ready’.” And he said, “So maybe there’s a pattern here.”
And eventually of course I did say yes and it was such an incredible experience working so closely with the president to frankly try to undo a lot of the damage that had been done the prior eight years.
But I have to tell you, I felt so much better about making this decision when Kirsten was asked to succeed me and to fill that Senate seat.
Because as she said, I had known her since 2000. This bright young lawyer from Albany. And I saw her in action. She supported me. She raised money. She made speeches. She made phone calls. She just did everything she could to get me elected to the Senate.
And so when she decided to run for the House some years later, I was all in. So I was helping her, speaking for her because I knew what a great representative she would be.
And then of course, she has been a superb senator along with Chuck Schumer for New York. So I know what good hands New York is in.
I want to just take a few minutes to tell you what you probably are already thinking.
This election is one of the most serious, consequential elections we’ve had in a long time. It is for a number of reasons. The differences between the two parties are stark.
Now, I believe the facts prove that our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And we saw that in the 1990s when my husband was president and 23 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody.
And what happened? We reversed course. The Republicans came back with their failed economic policy with trickle down economics.

It deserves a lot of boos.
When I was in the Senate, I was arguing and voting against these policies because I believed then it would reverse the economic progress we were making.
We had a lot of work still to do here in upstate and in other places.
But they got their way, slashed taxes for the wealthy, take their eyes off of the financial market and the mortgage markets. And we know what happened.
When President Obama called to ask me to come to Chicago to talk about becoming Secretary of State, before we talked about the world and our challenges, he just looked at me and he said, “It is so much worse than they told us.”
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month. Nine million Americans lost their jobs. Five million homes were lost. And $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out.
Now, why am I telling you this? Because I want you to remember it. I want you to know what the real different choices are.
We have people running for president on the Republican side led by Donald Trump who are – he’s not the only one. He may be the most flamboyant. But they all want to take us back to trickle down economics.
And we cannot allow that to happen. We cannot.
The most important economic issue in this campaign will be ensuring that we have a Democrat in the White House come next January.
So here’s what I have been advocating. Because it’s not just enough to keep going along and making progress. I want us to really have broad base inclusive prosperity again. More good jobs, rising incomes.
That’s why I’ve laid out plans for how we get more infrastructure jobs, including the creation of a national infrastructure bank to fund what we need to do with our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports.
And it’s not just what we see. We also have to fix our water systems, our sewer systems, leaking pipelines under the ground.
We have work to do. And these are good jobs. These are mostly union jobs where people can make a good living.
And then I was in Syracuse a few days ago announcing my manufacturing agenda because I want us to make it in America.
And I know we can do that.
We see what’s happening right here in the capital region with nano technology and bio technology and chips and other things that are being made in America right here in New York.
I remember when I first worked in nano technology and I was telling people in the Senate I wanted to get some funds to really begin to invest in nano technology right here in the capital region. It seemed like a long time ago. But look at the progress we’ve made. That’s what we need to do across upstate, indeed across America.
But the reason I emphasize upstate is because we have the skills, we have the hardworking people, we have the infrastructure. I will be the president who brings manufacturing back to upstate New York and America.
And another way we’re going to create a lot of new jobs is by combatting climate change.
And I care deeply about this issue. I worked on it. I thought we were making progress when I was in the Senate.
There were Republicans who would actually make a speech about it. Take a trip. I took a trip with John McCain. I went to some of the northern most places in America and in the world to look at what was happening. Up in Alaska…the northern most inhabited island in the world.
I thought we were making progress. And then all of a sudden between extreme partisans and the Koch brothers, you can’t get a Republican anymore to even say the words climate change.

You know. I’d bet you could talk to a teacher right here at the high school and get a good lesson about climate change.
But you know they’re afraid to even face this.
So back in 2009, when I became Secretary of State, I immediately began working with the president to try to lay the groundwork because we had to get fast-growing countries like China and India and others to sign on to cutting their emissions.
And it took years but we finally got it done.
I was really proud that thanks to American leadership, we got that agreement signed in Paris that commits the rest of the world to taking steps to deal with climate change.
Now, we have to figure out not only how we continue to lead but how we can be the leader because some nation is going to be the 21st century clean energy super power.
Right now, if I were guessing, I’d say it would either be Germany, China, or us. I want it to be us and I intend for it to be.
Because it’s not only the right thing to do to protect our environment, to protect our people’s health, to protect our planet, but it’s also smart.
There will be millions of new jobs and businesses coming out of the efforts to combat climate change.
I’ve set two big goals. I want us to deploy a half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home in America by the end of my second term.
You know, my friends it is easy to tell somebody what you’re against; I want you to know what I’m for.
I want you to know what my plans are, why I think we can do this together.
Because it is also important we do more for small business.
Small business will create about 75% of the new jobs and I want to have a much more supportive environment for that. And I especially want to focus on young people who want to start new businesses and job creation and entreprenuerialism.
And I have to say I was very proud to stand with Gov. Cuomo today in New York City as he signed the increase in the minimum wage, which I think is important first and foremost to lift people working full time out of poverty.
But here’s what I want you to understand. We are a 70% consumption economy. You know what that means? If people don’t have money in their pockets to spend, we don’t grow.
So the more money we get back to the most pockets instead of the most money going into the fewest pockets of the people at the top, the faster our economy will grow and more jobs with rising incomes will be good for everybody.
And you know one of the best ways to quickly raise income is to finally guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
Again, to me this is about growth and fairness? Of course it is. But it’s also a family issue. It’s also an economic issue.
Any family who has a woman working who’s not being paid fairly is penalize.
You know when you go to the store and you check out with what you’re buying, they don’t say, “Okay, you only make 78 cents on the dollar so we’re only going to charge you 78 cents on the dollar.” That’s not the way it works.
So we’ve got to think. We need to grow the economy and we need to be sure the economy is fair.
And one of the ways we have to do that too is to penalize those companies that want to ship jobs overseas because there is less and less reasons for them to do that.

So here is what I’m proposing. If any company ever got one penny of taxpayer help from a local, county, state, or federal government, then they have to pay it all back because they got that help to keep jobs right here in New York and America.
And if any company wants to move abroad and some of them do what’s called an inversion and I call a perversion, they move their headquarters. They pretend to move so they can avoid paying taxes. Anybody who does that, we’re going to slap the biggest exit tax on them to make them think twice about leaving our country.
And we’re going to enforce trade agreements like I did when I was in the Senate. I pushed hard to enforce trade agreements. I voted against the only multi-national one that came before us. And I said I’m against the Trans-Pacific Partnership because I don’t think it will raise income and produce jobs for New Yorkers and Americans.
Now everything just about I’ve said the Republicans disagree with.
That’s going to be a real choice because we can go back to the old ways, the old snake oil, or we can do what works. And I think we’ve got a pretty good idea for what that is.
It’s also true for education.
We need to start with early childhood education, universal pre-kindergarten.
And then in elementary and secondary school, I want to be a good partner to our teachers. I want to support our teachers.
I am tired of all the scapegoating of our educators. What we need to be doing is helping to support our teachers and our educators to get the resources they need to do the job we ask them to do.
And I also have a plan to make college affordable again.
Now, I share that goal with Sen. Sanders. We have a different way of doing it and I want you to understand the difference because I think it is important.
I’ve said, “Look, we need to have debt-free tuition. You don’t have to borrow a penny to go to college.” Now, if you’re wealthy, you have to pay.
I believe that is a fairer and a more affordable way to get to affordable college.
And so what I have said I’m going to work to make sure everybody who needs it gets to go to a public college or university without borrowing a penny.
And I want to work to get the costs down. So I am asking students to work 10 hours a week because if they do work at the college or the university, that will help lower the costs. And then we can actually get the costs down for more people and that will help us send more to college.
And I will pay for it by taxing the wealthy, and I can afford to do that the way I’ve got it set up.
Now, Sen. Sanders has said he has the same goal. He advocates for free college. Now, that means free for everybody, including Donald Trump’s kids.
I don’t think we need to do that. I think we need to focus on where the problem is – middle class families, working families, poor families.
And Sen. Sanders’s plan depends upon governors chipping in about a quarter of the costs.
Think about that. About 30 of our governors are Republicans. They are working as they can to take money away from higher education.
You know, I’ve spent time this week in Wisconsin where their governor, Scott Walker, has cut $250 million from higher education.
So under Sen. Sanders’s plan, he would be expected to contribute $300 million.
Now, I do believe in death bed conversions. But I am not at all counting on Scott Walker having a change of heart.

So I don’t want to make a promise I can’t keep. I can make and keep the promise of debt free tuition so that more of our young people can get to college.
And then we are going to make it easier for you to pay down and end your student debt.
How many people here currently have student debt? Oh yes, lots of hands.
Does anybody know if you have an interest rate higher than 8%? Anybody? Okay. Anybody higher than 10%? I feel like I’m in an auction.
I want everybody in the audience to hear this. We have young people who are paying 6%, 8%, 10%, 12% even 14% interest. Nothing has that kind of interest except credit card debt if you don’t pay it back right?
But you can refinance your mortgage. You can refinance your car. We are going to make it absolutely clear you can refinance that student debt, get down and out from under those high interest rates.
We will save millions of people thousands of dollars.
And then we’re going to move people into programs like I had.
When I got out of law school, I did go to work for the Children’s Defense Fund. I think I was paid about $14,000 a year. So I could not have afforded a big interest rate.
I paid my loan back based on a percentage of my income and it still took me about 15 years but I got it paid off.
So we’re going to have people pay back as a percentage of their income and then we’re going to end your obligation. After 20 years, you’re done. I’m not going to keep this going.
And we are going to stop our government from making a profit on lending money to young people to get an education.
And the other part of whether or not you can produce results for people is whether we get everybody access to quality, affordable health care – something I care deeply about.
You know, before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare.
Some of you could remember we had quite the battle with drug companies and the insurance companies. And they won that time. They really knocked us down.
But then I got back up and I said, “Okay, what can I get done?” And that’s when I helped to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which provides health insurance to eight million kids.
And that’s why I was so thrilled when President Obama passed and signed the Affordable Care Act.
We’ve been trying to do this since Harry Truman. And now we’ve got it done and 90% of Americans are covered.
Here’s what I want to do. I want to get the costs down. I want to get the choices up. I want to go right after the drug companies to rein in prescription drug costs.
And we’re going to start by requiring them to negotiate for lower prices with Medicare because that will ripple through the entire health care system.
So these are some of the issues that I’ve been talking about and setting forth ideas and plans on how to address because I think the first test that you should hold anybody running for president to see whether or not they meet is can they make your life better? Can they make a positive difference in improving the lives of Americans?
I want to tell you what I want to do because I want you to hold me accountable for doing it.
And I also want you to know where I stand on rights because the Republicans want to strip away, undermine, erode every single of our rights – our civil rights, our women’s rights, gay rights, voter rights, worker rights, rights for people with disability.
So here’s where I stand.
I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decision.
I will defend Planned Parenthood from these partisan political attacks.
I will defend marriage equality and work to end discrimination against the LGBT community.

I will defend voting rights and work to end Citizens United and its corruption of our political system.
I will defend Social Security from the Republicans’ efforts to privatize it.
I will defend the Veterans Administration, make it better but prevent the Republicans from tearing it apart.
I will keep working for comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
I will work to give more opportunities to people with disabilities when it comes to education and training and housing.
And I will continue to fight for common sense gun safety reforms that will save lives in our country.
So we have a big agenda here at home.
But the second test you should hold any candidate to is can this person keep us safe? Can this person lead us with strengths and values in the world?
And I am going to do my best to make sure that all the experience that I’ve had starting as your senator after 9/11 and going all the way to my Secretary of State years is put to good use to keep our country safe and to make sure we work with our friends and our allies.
You know, as some of you remember, after 9/11, we were not sure what was going to happen next. And we knew we had to be prepared.
And I give great credit to the NYPD, to the FDNY, to everybody working to keep us safe.
And we learned a lot of lessons. We learned, for example, that everybody had to be part of our defense. We had to reach out and make everybody understand that if they saw something suspicious or heard something suspicious, they should report it, and thousands of people did. And it proved to be a really smart strategy.
So when I hear Donald Trump or Ted Cruz with those offensive comments they make about Muslims, it’s not only wrong; it’s dangerous.
Because what we’ve got to do is make sure everybody feels comfortable to pick up that phone or to go on their computer to report something.
And the people on the front lines who are going to hear more or see more are very often in our American Muslim communities.
And we also have to have coalitions with many nations in order to defeat ISIS – something I have some experience in doing because I put together the coalition that brought Iran to the negotiating table by imposing crippling sanctions.
So when Donald Trump talks about pulling out of NATO or keeping Muslims out of the United States or even abandoning our allies in the Pacific, that does not make him sound strong. It makes him sound like he’s in over his head.
Finally, the third test. Can you unify our country?
Because we have too much divisiveness.
You know, there are so many people who are worried, even fearful, and sometimes angry about what’s happening in our country.
I understand that especially when you think about what I told you concerning the Great Recession. A lot of people were just knocked flat and some of them haven’t fully recovered yet at all. So I know that there is a lot of concern.
But to play to that in a way that brings out anger and prejudice and paranoia doesn’t help us solve our problems.

It’s okay to get angry and then once we get angry, we’ve got to figure out what we’re going to do about it.
What’s our plan? What’s our strategy?
We’re at our best – you know, so much of American history came out of New York. We are at our best. And remember what our great former governor and president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, “All we have to fear is fear itself”?
So I will go anywhere anytime to meet with anyone to find common ground.
And I will also stand my ground but I know how important it is to keep trying to solve problems together.
A lot of the work that Paul has done in the House and I know particularly that Kirsten has done in the Senate, you work with a lot of people that you don’t agree with on maybe 90% of the issues.
But you try to find that 10%, figure out what you can do to make a difference.
That’s what I want to do as your president.
I will get up every single day and work for the results that will make a difference in your lives, to keep us safe, and to unify our country.
And I want to end with what Kirsten said about people who inspired her and mentored her, and I’m honored to be listed with her grandmother and mother. And she mentioned my mother.
You know, I often wondered at how my mother came out of what was a very neglectful and terrible childhood. Literally being sent away, not wanted by her parents, to her grandparents who didn’t want her either. And then ending up working as a house maid at the age of 14 and looking for something that would be meaningful to her.
And she was fortunate because the woman whose home she worked in realized my mother wanted to go to high school.
And so they worked it out. They would work really early in the morning and do the chores they had to do, and then literally go to high school, run to high school and run back and finish the chores. She did that for four years.
I asked her one time when she was old enough to understand what she had gone through, “How did you survive this?” And she said, “You know, at critical moments in my life, somebody showed me kindness.”
A kind word. A kind gesture. It made all the difference to her.
So in this campaign, I’ve been talking about how we need more love and kindness toward each other in our country.
And how we have to try again to see the world through others’ eyes. And then figure out what we can do to make it better.
And then finally, I’m inspired everyday by my granddaughter.
You know, having an 18-month-old granddaughter with another on the way this summer is just – it’s personally the most wonderful thing that has ever happened. It is like falling in love all over again.
But here’s what I want you to know.
Of course, Bill and I are going to do everything we can to make sure that our granddaughter has every opportunity in life.
But that is not enough it really matters what our country she and all of our other kids will become an adult in.
Is it a country that still believing in and realizing the promise of America for everyone or just for a few?
And it really matters what kind of world is out there waiting for her and every other child in our country. Is it a safe world? Is it a prosperous and peaceful world? Is it a world where we are able to deal with climate change and all the other challenges that we face?
So here’s what I want you to know. I don’t think it’s enough that my granddaughter has opportunities. I want your children and your grandchildren to have exactly the same opportunities to live up to their dreams, to fulfill their own potential. That will be the mission of my presidency.
I need your help on April 19th. Please come out and let’s vote for a future that we will make together.
Thank you all so much!

Thank you, New York! Thank you all so much! Thank you!
You know, today you proved once again there’s no place like home.
You know, in this campaign, we’ve won in every region of the country from the north to the south to the east to the west. But this one’s personal.
New Yorkers, you’ve always had my back. And I’ve always tried to have yours.
Today, together we did it again and I am deeply, deeply grateful.
I want to thank everyone who came out and voted and to all of you across New York who’ve known me and worked with me for so long.
It is humbling. It’s humbling that you trust me with the awesome responsibilities that await our next president.
And to all the people who supported Sen. Sanders, I believe that there is much more that unites us than divides us.
You know, we started this race not far from here on Roosevelt Island pledging to build on the progressive tradition that’s done so much for America from Franklin Roosevelt to Barack Obama.
And tonight, little less than a year later, the race for the Democratic nomination is in the home stretch and victory is in sight.
And I want to say to all of my supporters and all of the voters, you have carried us every step of the way with passion and determination that some critics tried to dismiss.
Because of you, this campaign is the only one – Democrat or Republican – to win more than 10 million votes.
But I’m going forward because more voices remain to be heard and tomorrowit’s on to Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and beyond.
We need you to keep volunteering. I hope you’ll join the 1.1 million people who’ve already contributed at HillaryClinton.com. And by the way most with less than $100 because we have more work to do.
Under the bright lights of New York, we have seen that it’s not enough to diagnose; you have to explain how you’d actually solve the problem.
That’s what we have to do together for our kids, for each other, for our country.
So I want you with me to imagine a tomorrow where barriers hold you back and all of our people can share in the promise of America.
Imagine a tomorrow where every parent can find a good job and every grandparent can enjoy a secure retirement, where no child grows up in the shadow of discrimination or under the specter of deportation, where hard work is honored, families are supported, and communities are strong.
A tomorrow where we trust and respect each other despite our differences because we’re going to make positive differences in people’s lives. That is what this is supposed to be about – actually helping people and each other.
Now, we all know too many people who are still hurting. I see it everywhere I go.
The Great Recession wiped out jobs, homes, and savings, and a lot of Americans haven’t yet recovered.
But I still believe with all my heart that as another great Democratic president once said, “There is nothing wrong with America that can’t be cured by what’s right with America.”
That is after all what we’ve always done. It’s who we are.
America is a problem-solving nation. And in this campaign, we are setting bold, progressive goals backed up by real plans that will improve lives, creating more good jobs that provide dignity and pride in a middle class life, raising wages and reducing inequality, making sure all our children get a great education no matter what zip code they live in, building ladders of opportunity and empowerment so all of our people can go as far as their hard work and talent will take them.
Let’s revitalize places that have been left out and left behind from inner cities to coal country to Indian country.
And let’s put Americans to work rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, including our failing water system like the one in Flint, Michigan.

There are many places across our country where children and families are at risk from the water they drink and the air they breathe.
Let’s combat climate change and make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
Let’s take on the challenge of systemic racism, invest in communities of color, and finally pass comprehensive immigration reform.
And once and for all, let’s guarantee equal pay for women.
And we are going to keep our families safe and our country strong, and we are going to defend our rights – civil rights, voting rights, workers’ rights, women’s rights, LGBT rights, and rights for people with disability.
Those are after all New York values and they are American values.
And just as we did in this primary campaign, we need to stand up for them through the general election and everyday after that.
You know, it’s becoming clearer that this may be one of the most consequential elections of our lifetime.
Donald Trump and Ted Cruz are pushing a vision for America that’s divisive and frankly dangerous, returning to trickle-down economics, opposing any increase in the minimum wage, restricting a woman’s right to make her own health care decision, promising to round up millions of immigrants, threatening to ban all Muslims from entering the country, planning to treat American Muslims like criminals.
These things go against everything America stands for.
And we have a very different vision. It’s about lifting each other up, not tearing each other down.
So instead of building walls, we’re going to break down barriers, and in this campaign I’ve seen again our remarkable diversity and determination. This is a state and a country of big-hearted, open-minded, straight talking, hardworking people.
You know, like John, a firefighter from the South Bronx that I met shortly after 9/11 as he searched for survivors at Ground Zero and like so many others, John got sick from breathing the toxic air. When we met again last week, he gave me a replica of his FDNY badge and thanked me for helping our first responders get the health care they need. We have to keep fighting for John and all of our firefighters and our police officers and our emergency responders and the construction workers who did so much for us.

Or Maxine – Maxine, a 27-year-old single mom from Staten Island who’s here tonight. She told me how she worked her way out of poverty, graduated from college thanks in part to the help she got for her child from the Children’s Health Insurance Program that we started in the 1990s.
Or Mikey from Stuyvesant Town, who spent – is Mikey here? Well, I’ll tell you, Mikey spent six months in Rikers for a low-level drug offense and he found out how hard it is for people who’ve done their time to find jobs when they get out. Mikey managed to start his own ice cream shop. I took a lot of you in reality or through the media there yesterday. I highly recommend it. As you might have seen, I couldn’t stop myself from eating it as soon as I got it.
By the way, he made a concoction for me called Victory. But Mikey is one of the many reasons why we have to reform our criminal justice system and ban the box so others have a fair chance to succeed.
You know, New Yorkers and Americans speak every language, follow every faith, hail from every continent, our diversity is one of our greatest strengths in the 21st century, not a weakness.

As Robert Kennedy, whose Senate seat I was honored to hold, once said, “We are a great country, an unselfish country, and a compassionate country.”
And no matter what anyone tells you or what you hear from others running for president, that is still true today.
America is great, and we can do great things if we do them together.
So, please join us text – JOIN 47246 – go to HillaryClinton, be part of this campaign.
I know how important it is that we get the campaign’s resources from people just like you who go in and chip in $5, $25. I am grateful to every one of you and to the volunteers who have worked your hearts out, to the community leaders, members of the state senate and assembly, county executives, mayors of cities large and small, and to the mayor of New York and our borough presidents and the city council members, and to our governor, our senators, our congressional delegations, and all my friends across this wonderful state of ours. Thank you!
You know, we’re going to up against some powerful forces that will do, say, and spend whatever it takes to stop us. But remember, it’s not whether you get knocked down, it’s whether you get back up.
And finally, let me say this…there is a remarkable young woman here tonight. Her name is Erica. Erica Lafferty. She lives the truth of what I’ve been saying everyday. Erica’s mother – Dawn [Hochsprung] – was the principal of Sandy Hook Elementary School, and she died trying to protect her children, her students.
Erica was devastated as any family member is. And she couldn’t imagine life without her mom.
But then, she got thinking, she got back up…She had never been involved in politics before. But she has made it her mission to advocate for common sense gun safety reform.
You know, like the mothers of Eric Garner, Trayvon Martin, and so many others, Erica has turned her sorrow into a strategy and her mourning into a movement. It isn’t easy. But as Erica said the other day, “What if everyone who faced tough odds said ‘It’s hard so I am going to walk away’? That’s not the type of world I want to live in.”
Erica, it’s not the type of world we want to live and we refuse to live in that.
So my friends, that’s the spirit that makes this country great. It’s how New Yorkers pulled together and rebuilt the city after the worst terrorist attack in our history. It’s how Americans worked our way back from the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes. And it is how we’re going to break down all the barriers holding us back.
The motto of this state is excelsior – ever upwards. So let’s go out and win this election…thank you so much!
What a great night!
I want to thank everyone. I want to thank everyone.
Thank you all so much.
Wow, I just want to thank all of you – everyone who came out to vote here in Pennsylvania and across Maryland, Delaware, Connecticut, Rhode Island. I am so grateful to all our volunteers, our organizers, our community leaders – everyone who worked their hearts out.
And I want to thank the leaders here in Pennsylvania…And of course, I want to thank the 42nd president of the United States, my husband.
Now, with your help, we’re going to come back to Philadelphia for the Democratic National Convention with the most votes and the most pledged delegates.
And we will unify our party to win this election and build an America where we can all rise together – an America where we lift each other up instead of tearing each other down.
So, we need you to keep volunteering, keep talking to your friends and neighbors. Please join the more than 1.1 million people who already have contributed at HillaryClinton.com.
Look, I know there are still too many barriers holding too many Americans back. But despite what other candidates say, we believe in the goodness of our people and the greatness of our nation.
And if anyone doubts that, just let them travel across this country as I’ve done in this campaign the past year, hearing people’s stories, learning about their struggles.
Listen to the quiet determinations of the working parents I met last week in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. They are doing everything they can to provide opportunities to their children in an economy where there still aren’t enough good-paying jobs…
Listen to the mothers to lost children to gun violence and encounters with the police. They’re turning their sorrows into strategy and their mourning into a movement – a movement for justice and dignity.
Listen to the nurse I met in New Haven, Connecticut, who worked for years to build a middle class life and raise a family. But then her luck changed. She was diagnosed with breast cancer and used up all her savings and her sick time. Soon, she was facing foreclosure and the prospect of losing the home she’d loved for more than 20 years. And here’s what she said to me: “My daughter and I lived in fear of the day that we might come home and have a lock on the door. We’re in pain. We’re hurting. We were and are the backbone of this country – the middle class. We’re not asking for a handout. We just want to be treated fairly.”
And she is speaking for so many people across our country who feel beaten down, left out and left behind. People who have worked hard and done their part but just can’t seem to get ahead and find it tough even to get by.
Now, underneath all these worries together we are going to come together and we are going to solve the problems we face.
And you know, I am aware that too many people feel at the mercy of forces too big for anyone to control and they just worry that those of us in politics put our own interests ahead of the national interest.
The faith that we can make things better, that we can give our kids a better future than we had is at the heart of who we are as a nation. And it’s one of the reasons that being American has always been such a blessing.
And our campaign is about restoring people’s confidence in our ability to solve problems together by delivering results that help people follow their own dreams.
That’s why we’re setting bold progressive goals backed up by real plans that will improve our lives.
After all, that is how progress gets made. We have to be both dreamers and doers.
And as a great Democratic president once said, “There is nothing wrong with America that can’t be cured by what’s right with America.”
So here’s what I believe. I believe we can create more good jobs with rising incomes – jobs that provide dignity, pride in the middle class life.
We can renew our democracy by overturning Citizens United.
We can lift up people and places that have been left out from our inner cities to Appalachia, in every manufacturing town hollowed out when the factory closed, every community scarred by substance abuse and addiction, every home where a child goes to bed hungry.
That’s what we Democrats believe in. That’s what we know is possible.
So we will build on a strong progressive tradition from Franklin Roosevelt to Barack Obama.
And I applaud Sen. Sanders and his millions of supporter for challenging us to get unaccountable money out of our politics and giving greater emphasis to closing the gap of inequality.
And I know together we will get that done because whether you support Sen. Sanders or you support me, there’s much more that unites us than divides us.
We all agree that wages are too low and inequality is too high, that Wall Street can never again be allowed to threaten Main Street. And we should expand Social Security, not cut or privatize it.
We Democrats agree that college should be affordable to all and student debt shouldn’t hold anyone back.
We Democrats agree that every single American should and must have quality, affordable health care.
We agree that our next president must keep our country safe, keep our troops out of another costly ground war in the Middle East.
And we Democrats agree that climate change is an urgent threat and it requires an aggressive response that can make America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century.
And we Democrats agree on defending all of our rights – civil rights and voting rights, workers’ rights and women’s rights, LGBT rights and rights for people with disabilities.
So in this election, we will have to stand together and work hard to prevail against candidates on the other side, who would threaten all those rights and pit Americans against each other.
They would make it harder to vote, not easier. They would deny women the right to make her own reproductive health care decisions. They would round up millions of hardworking immigrants and deport them. They would demonize and discriminate hardworking, terror-hating Muslim Americans who we need in the fight against radicalization.
And both of the top candidates in the Republican Party denied climate change even exists.
Now, the other day, Mr. Trump accused me of playing the “woman card”. Well, if fighting for women’s health care and paid family leave and equal pay is playing the “woman card”, then deal me in.
So instead of letting them take us backwards, we want America to be in the future business.
That’s why I want you to keep imagining a tomorrow where instead of building walls, we’re breaking down barriers. We are making it more likely that Americans will be part of a prosperous, inclusive decent society.
We’re imagining a tomorrow where every parent can find a good job and every grandparent can enjoy a secure retirement.
We’re imagining a tomorrow where no child grows up in the shadows of discrimination or under the specter of deportation and where every child has a good teacher and a good school no matter what zip code that child lives in.
And imagine a tomorrow where any young person can graduate from college debt free.
We’re going to imagine a tomorrow where hard work is honored, families are supported, streets are safe, and communities are strong and where love trumps hate.
That is the future I want. I want that future for my granddaughter and for all of our children and grandchildren.
Now, think of this, our nation was born right here in Philadelphia.
Our Declaration of Independence and Constitution were signed just a few blocks away and ever since even through dark and difficult chapters of our history, the idea of America has shone through.
At our best we are, as Robert Kennedy said, “a great country, an unselfish country, and a compassionate country”.
But America’s greatness is not a birthright. It must be earned by every generation.
So please join us – join us. Go to HillaryClinton.com, text JOIN 47246. Volunteer, contribute, compete. Let’s go forward. Let’s win the nomination. And in July, let’s return as a unified party.
Thank you all so much!

…You know, these elections are always important. You know, that’s how we govern ourselves. I believe that. But boy, do I think this presidential election has about the highest stakes that we’ve seen in a really long time.
You could not imagine a more different vision for our country than the one between our side of Democrats for progress, for prosperity, for fairness and opportunity than the presumptive nominee on the Republican side.
And that’s why it’s important we have a big vote on next Tuesday because we’ve got to get ready to go all the way to November to win the general election.
You know, the way I see this, we’ve got to break down all the barriers that stand in the way of any American getting ahead and staying ahead.
And I’ve been talking about this now for years. I’ve criss-crossed the country talking to thousands of people because we’ve got to knock down the economic barriers but there are other barriers that prevent other people from fulfilling their own God-given potential.
And I want you with me to be absolutely on the front lines of making sure that the American dream is within reach of every single person in this country.
Number one, we’ve got to have more good jobs with rising incomes. And I’ll tell you, it’s a historical fact the economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
I know our Republican friends hate it when I say that but all you have to do is look at the record of the last two Democratic presidents to get all the evidence you need.
As I vaguely remember, I know it was a long time ago, but as I vaguely remember, when my husband was president, we ended up with 23 million new jobs and incomes that rose for everybody.
That’s an important fact because we don’t want income just to rise for some. We want them to rise for everybody, not just people at the top.
And when Bill was president, that is what happened. More people lifted out of poverty. Median family income going up 17%. Median African-American family income going up 33%. Everybody did better.
That’s the way it’s supposed to be in America. That’s how I was raised.
You do your part. You work hard. You get ahead. Your kids will have a better life than you did.
That’s what I want people to believe, and that’s what I want to make sure happens.
So you might ask yourself, “Okay, if that’s what happened in the ‘90s, why did it fall apart?”
And there’s a kind of easy answer for that. We had a Republican president.
And I’ll tell you. This is serious because I think we had a balanced budget and surplus, we had new jobs, rising incomes, and now we can look back and see that we haven’t had a raise for most Americans in about 16 years.
Family income is about $4,000 less than it was when my husband left office.
There was a recent survey done of both Republicans and Democrats and they were saying “When was the best year you could remember?” and they said 2000. Now, why was that? Because we were on the right track.
But the Republicans came back with their failed economic positions – trickle down economics.

And then of course, they took their eyes off the financial markets and the mortgage markets and we know what happened – the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Now, this is not ancient history, and I remind us of it because the Republicans are going to run the same campaign; they’re going to run the same economic policies. You can already see it. We can’t let that happen.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month when President Obama was elected. And I’ll tell you, I don’t think he gets the credit he deserves for making sure we don’t fall into a Great Depression.
And you know, what the Republicans all say – they said it in their debates, you’ll hear it from their presumptive nominee, they say, “Well, this is the slowest recovery in history.”
Now my friends, that takes a lot of nerve. We would not have needed a recovery if the Republicans hadn’t driven us off the cliff in the first place.
And so here’s what I want to do. I have a program to create more good jobs with rising incomes, rebuild the middle class. We’re going to invest in more infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports.
I think it’s about time a bridge you’ve got right here should be fixed.
These are good jobs. These pay good money. But they also make us more competitive.
Why should we allow all the investments that our parents, our grandparents, our great grandparents made go to waste? Makes no sense whatsoever.
Let’s put Americans to work. These are jobs you cannot export. They’ve got to be done right here in Kentucky.
And then we’re going to bring back advanced manufacturing. There are a lot of people who’ll say to me, “Well, we can’t do that.” I don’t buy it.
I believe we can make it in America again. We’ve got to have a plan. We’ve got to invest in tax incentives for companies that will actually produce manufacturing jobs here instead of shipping those jobs overseas.
But there’s a lot of things we’ve got to invent and build and we should do it here in America.
My husband was at Morehead State the other day and he can’t stop talking about it because he was meeting with students who are doing research building tiny satellites for NASA right there at Morehead State.
I’m telling you, the young people of America if we give them a chance, they will invent the future the create the jobs that are there.
And you know how we’re going to combat climate change? Well, we’re not going to combat it by denying it.
I love it when the Republicans are asked, “Well, what do you think about climate change?” and they all say something like, “Well, I don’t know. I’m not a scientist.”
And I’ve been saying for months now, “Well, go talk to a scientist.”
You can go to the University of Louisville or you can go to the University of Kentucky – there are a lot of scientists there who will explain it to you.
But I’m also excited because some country is going to be the 21st century super power when it comes to clean renewable energy. It’s going to be, I think, either Germany, China, or us. I want it to be us – the jobs, the technologies, the businesses, the exports.
You see, I have this idea that our future can be even brighter than our past, that the best years of America can be ahead of us if we start acting like Americans again, roll up our sleeves and get to work.
And we’re going to do more for small business because that’s where most jobs come from. Clear away all the obstacles.
My dad was a small businessman and I love small businesses because you never know what could be made a small business. And I want to do more to help you get ahead if you have a small business.
And I do believe – I do believe – we should raise the federal minimum wage. Now, I’ve got to tell you it’s really painful when you look at people who are working hard full-time and they’re still in poverty.

I mean, you should feel like you’ve got a ladder of opportunity up if you’re doing what we want you and expect you to do.
Two-thirds of minimum wage workers are women – a lot of them single parents supporting their children.
I want to raise the federal minimum wage. If states want to go above it, that’s their business. But we’ve got to get the floor up so that people have a chance to make it in American by the dint of their hard work.
And I’ll tell you, it is way past time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
I mean, this is not just a woman’s issue. This is a family issue. If you have a mother, a wife, a daughter, a sister who’s working, if they’re being shortchanged, you’re being shortchanged.
And it’s not only the family income that’s being shortchanged, the woman who is getting less than what her pay should be is getting shortchanged in retirement, getting shortchanged in Social Security. It’s not just a one-day, one-week, one-pay period, one-year phenomenon.
And I don’t know about you but I can tell you that as a woman who has shopped most of her life, I have never gotten a discount when I got to the cashier. I’ve never had anybody say to me, “Well, you’re a woman so you only have to pay 78 cents on the dollar.” Or an African-American woman, “You only have to pay about 68 cents” or a Latino woman, “About 58 [cents]”. That hasn’t happened yet.
But we need to be fair and people who work hard need to be rewarded. That’s how we build this country. We believe in hard work. We believe in opportunity.
I’ll tell you something else. I started out in Lexington today and I was talking to some young parents – moms and dads – I had a conversation like it in Virginia yesterday. We’re making it so difficult for young families.
You know, the stresses on young families today seem to be much greater in lots of ways. Because between the fact that you’re not getting raises like people used to expect, and you’re not getting maybe equal pay for your work and child care can cost as much as sending a child to the university. And you’ve got all kinds of challenges. If you have a new baby or a sick spouse or a sick parent, you can’t get time off. We’re really making it hard.
And I think it’s time to say hey let’s bring family policy into the 21st century. It is not the way it used to be. We’ve got to support these young parents.
I’ve been doing this work my entire adult life. First job I had out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund and I know how important it is that we give people hope, that we give people a real sense that we’re all in this together and that they don’t feel like the game is rigged against them and the deck is stacked.
So I’m going to keep advocating for good jobs and rising incomes and good work-family balance policies that can help people feel like they are being fair to their family while they do their work in their workplace.
And every time I advocate for this, you know, the Republicans all say, “Well, there she goes playing the woman card.” And I always say, “You know what? If talking about equal pay and women’s health and paid family is playing the woman card, then deal me in.”
You’re a great, great crowd today!

Okay! You know what else? We’ve got to do more on education and we’ve got to start from the beginning and we’ve got to go all the way through.
So I do think we need more early childhood education so every kid is prepared.
And we need to work with our teachers like Tia [sp], who was out here earlier introducing Allison [sp]. We need to be supporting our teachers, not scapegoating our teachers, giving them what they need to do their job.
And then I have a plan for debt-free college if you go to a public college.
And the reason we could afford to do this is because we can invest in the education of young people from middle class, working poor families, not the wealthy. I don’t believe in free college for the wealthy. I don’t support that.
My opponent, Sen. Sanders, does. We just have a difference.
But he also requires that a third of the cost for free college to be paid by the states.
Now, I don’t know about you but it doesn’t seem like your new governor is real friendly to higher education.
So my plan avoids that; we fund it directly.
The other thing we’re going to do is pay down student debt by letting your refinance your debt like a mortgage or a car payment.
I’m excited about this because there’s so much student debt out there and it’s holding people back and it’s holding them down.
$1.2 trillion in student debt. So let’s get the interest rate down. Let’s give people a chance to pay it back as a percentage of their income.
Let’s put a date certain when it ends and let’s stop the federal government from making money off of lending money to students and their families.
Now, I also will tell you, I will defend the Affordable Care Act. And I am sadden by what I hear may come out of the governor’s office here in Kentucky.
I’m especially sadden because I think you all know this. But Kentucky under Gov. [Steve] Beshear was widely, widely praised for running the best Affordable Care transition in the whole country. Your state exchange called Connect – better than any state, bigger, richer. You guys did it right. And it’s working. You have the biggest, the second biggest drop in the uninsured in the country. Nearly 9% it’s down to.
And I was visiting the family health centers here in Louisville and I was talking to doctors and nurse practitioners and patients and I have to tell you it just brought tears to my eyes. People who are getting health care for the first time in years. People who were dealing with problems that they just had to ignore. People who feel healthier, more productive like they can put in a good day’s work because they now have the treatments they deserve and need to have.
And it is so – it’s so distressing to me when anybody in public life – anybody in public life – who has all the health care he or she needs wants to take it away from poor people, working poor people, small business people and others who don’t have the health care they need. I don’t understand it.
I really do believe we are all in this together. We are stronger together.
And how does it help me or help our economy if you have hundreds of thousands of people in this state who can’t afford the health care they need? That doesn’t seem like a productive outcome at all.
So I’m hoping maybe your governor will come out with a plan that doesn’t strip away the health insurance that hundreds of thousands of Kentuckians now have. I sure hope that’s the case because that’s the kind of country we should be striving to be where we do take care of each other.

And there are two issue.
I want to get the cost of prescription drugs down and I think we can do it now. And I want to do more on mental health and addiction.
Both of those issues – we’re just not doing enough. There’s still too much stigma about mental health. Right?
If you have diabetes, you’d tell your family, your friends you’ve been diagnosed with diabetes. Right?
If you have depression, you’re not sure if you want anybody to know and you may not even go get the help you need because you’re embarrassed.
It is time to end the stigma. We are learning so much about the body, about our genomes, about how we actually work and we are all one body and whether it’s mental health or physical health, it is all who we are and we need to do more to help people who are suffering.
And I know Kentucky’s facing a big opioid crisis and we’ve got to do more because we’re losing thousands of people a year to overdoses.
And I was very pleased at the family health center today to learn that they’re starting an opioid treatment but we need that everywhere because people need help and they need to be saved from overdoses. A lot of them don’t know that they’re actually overdosing.
My husband and I have lost the children of dear friends of ours – adult children – who had no intention to die but they took a pill after they’ve had a beer or two and they never woke up. This is the single most heartbreaking story I hear as I travel across America.
And as your president, if I’m fortunate enough to be, we’re going to do everything we can to save lives, divert people from the criminal justice system, give them treatment, help them into recovery, and let them get off on a better track.
We’re also going to reform the criminal justice system and end the era of mass incarceration with more diversion programs and more second chance programs.
I think it’s one of our biggest challenges and I want us to lead the way at the local and state level supported by the federal government.
You know, there’s a lot of great work for us to do in our country right now. And I think everybody running for president should have to meet the test of whether or not they’re telling you about how they’re going to improve the lives of Americans. What are the positive results that we are seeking.
I also think they should level with you about where they stand on all of the hot button issues, the issues about rights because there’s a big difference between us.
I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions.
And I will defend marriage equality.
And I will defend voting rights.
And I will work to end Citizens United and rid our political system of unaccountable money.
I talk a lot about that in this campaign. I take it personally. That Citizens United case was another right wing attack on me.
You know, the right wing never gives up attacking me. Have you noticed that?
Honest to goodness, I think they’re really going to throw everything including the kitchen sink this time. But I have a little message for them – they’ve done it for 25 years and I’m still standing.
Now, you know, it’s also really important when you go to vote on Tuesday to remember you’re voting not just for a president but a commander-in-chief, and the highest obligation of a president is to protect America.

I take that as a solemn obligation. And it’s why I’ve been so concerned about the reckless talk coming from Donald Trump.
I have tell you it’s a long list now that he just sort of throws things out and people say, “Well, maybe he doesn’t mean it.” When you are running for and serving as president, you better mean what you say.
So when he casually say he doesn’t care if more countries get nuclear weapons, I shudder. The last thing we need are more countries with nuclear weapons. I’m trying to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. That’s why I negotiated a treaty with Russia to do just that. We don’t need more countries – we need fewer countries with nuclear weapons.
When he says he wants to withdraw from NATO, the most successful military alliance in history, I say, “And what are we going to substitute for it? And how are we going to work with our friends and allies against all new threats we face?”
And when he says, “Well, you know, let the Iranians or the Russians go after ISIS,” well, hello, the last thing we need is Iran taking over Syria, taking over Lebanon, and threatening Israel and Europe and everybody else.
So I’ve got to tell you – I am – if I’m so fortunate enough as to be the nominee, I am looking forward to debating Donald Trump come the fall.
Finally, finally, we’ve got to unify America. I mean, a house divided against itself, as Abraham Lincoln said, cannot stand.
We can’t be scapegoating and fingerprinting and blaming and demeaning and degrading and insulting our fellow Americans.
Do we have disagreements, yeah, that’s in the DNA. That’s healthy. There are lots of different ways to achieve our goals. We set our goals and then we have a good back and forth about how we achieve them. You don’t do that by denigrating people, demeaning people. That is not what we are. And it’s time we say “Enough!”
We’re willing to have good political debates. But enough with the hate rhetoric and the insults. And let’s look for ways that we can work together.
And let’s also recognize what did make our country great because you see I think we are great. But I think we can be greater if we do what we must do.
And so many of the targets that Trump aims at and other Republicans aim at, they’re part of how we became great.
You know, this effort by Republicans to undermine workers’ rights and union rights is undermining the middle class, undermining the core of who we are and how our economy operates and how we can be stronger and more prosperous.
Attacking immigrants? We are a nation of immigrants. Right?
Attacking Muslims? Well, Muslims have to be on the front lines of protecting us against terrorists. They’ve got to tell us what they hear and what they see. That’s what we learned in New York after 9/11. I have lived this. And one of the ways we picked up information was by making sure that American Muslims understood that they were welcomed to pick up the phone and to call the police and to report what they saw and what they heard. It helped to keep us, and it will again. That’s why we can’t be dividing ourselves. We need to be united against terrorism.
And demeaning and denigrating people with disabilities? That’s not who we are.
Insulting women? I don’t care what he says about me but I do resent what he says about other people, other successful women, women who have worked hard, women who have done their part. We are after all 51% of the country.

I’ve never seen us have such a divisive campaign, and I’m going to do my best to keep talking about what the issues are, what I see as our future, the kind of positive vision that I have for America.
I’m going to build on the good work that has gone before.
I’m going to do everything I can to bring people together. I will go anywhere, anytime, meet with anyone to find common ground. Absolutely.
That’s what I did as First Lady. That’s what I did as a senator. That’s what I did as Secretary of State.
I am all about getting results for America. The way I look at it is – are people going to be better off when I end than when I started? Are more families going to have better jobs with rising incomes? Are more kids going to have better education and better health care? Are we going to be coming together as a nation instead of falling apart?
I think that is our big challenge to the 21st century because I will tell you there is no other country – none – I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State for you – there is no other country that holds a candle to us. When we are good, nobody is better.
And I want us to roll up our sleeves and get to work.
And I feel especially strongly about that because I have a granddaughter now. And those of you who have grandchildren, you know you are just obsessed with them. It is really kind of weird. You just sit there and stare at them. And you do it because you’re so overwhelmed by love and you see your child – your son or your daughter – who’s now a parent. But it’s also because you’re thinking about the future, and you’re saying to yourself, “I don’t want anything ever to go wrong for this precious child. I don’t want her ever to face hard times although they come in everyone’s life.”
But you see, it’s not enough that my grandchild has opportunities. I want every child and every grandchild here in this city, this state, I want every child to have the same opportunity to grow up and fulfill his or her God-given potential. That is what I will work on every single day in this campaign and in the White House.
Please come out and vote on Tuesday.
Thank you, Louisville!

Oh thank you, San Jose!
Wow! I am so, so excited about being here. I can’t tell you how wonderful it is to be in this city, which as the lieutenant governor just said is a city all about the future. All about the future of the economy, the future of our society, how we are going to be stronger together.
…Now, you know when you run for office and particularly when you run for president, you always come and tell big crowds like this “This is the most important election.” Don’t you? You hear that.
I happen to think every election is important. But you know what? This is the most important election. Because we’ve got some big decisions to make as a country. And there could not be a starker difference between me and now as of today the Republican nominee Donald Trump.
You know, I’m proud of the campaign that Sen. Sanders and I have run. We have run a campaign on issues about the future.
We both want universal health care coverage. We both want to make college affordable within the reach of every young person who wants to go to a public college or university.
We both want to rein in and prevent what happened in the Great Recession with the misdeeds of Wall Street from ever happening again.
We are on the same page.
So we are going to be coming together as a unified Democratic Party to make our case against Donald Trump because we – Sen. Sanders and I – our supporters together have so much more in common than we do with Donald Trump.
People say to me, “Well, you talk about Trump a lot.” And I do and I’ll tell you why. Because what he is saying is dangerous and divisive. What he is saying is harmful to our future and our country.
Our president – President Obama – is in Japan today meeting with our closest allies and we came out of the meeting and went to the formal press conference that ends events like that, he said he reported that the leaders of our friends are “rattled” – rattled – by what Donald Trump is saying and what he is promoting and what he stands for.

Well, I’ll tell you what. The best way to reassure ourselves and the rest of the world is to make sure that Donald Trump – this loose cannon – never gets close to the White House.
You know, it was bad enough when he started his campaign in his very first hour criticizing and insulting immigrants. You know, he called immigrants “rapists”, “murderers”, and “criminals”. It was disgraceful.
And then he went on to insult women, to insult John McCain – a war hero, to insult, to make fun of a man with a disability, to denigrate Muslims. Honest to goodness, there’s nobody left by the time he gets finished with criticizing everybody he can.
That is no way to run for president of the United States.
I’m telling I am so looking forward to debating Donald Trump. I can’t wait!
Because here’s what we’re going to talk about. What is our positive vision? I have ideas about how to create more good jobs with rising incomes.
We’re going to invest in infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our water systems.
We are going to finish the job of connecting up America so everybody has access to affordable Internet connections.
We are going to make things in America again by incentivizing advanced manufacturing.
You know, here in California, you are inventing the future, new technologies, new research every single year. So let’s make those products in America again.
And let’s agree to fight climate change, which Donald Trump called a Chinese hoax.
Honestly, you’ve heard all of the Republicans when they were running. Part of the reason the Republicans have ended up with Donald Trump is because they could never criticize him about issues because they basically agree with him about issues. Right?
So when the Republicans were asked “Well, what do you think about climate change?” They always said, “Oh, I don’t know. I’m not a scientist.” Well, they could go to San Jose, stay and find a scientist and figure out all about climate change.
One of the ways we’re going to combat climate change is by investing in and creating jobs in clean renewable energy.
I have said two big goals. I want us to deploy half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home in America by the end of my second term.
That will not only put the United States in the lead on dealing with climate change but it will also create a new economy because think about this: Some country is going to be the clean energy super power. It’s either going to be China, Germany, or us. I want it to be us. Don’t you?
And when you think about millions of jobs in infrastructure, manufacturing, and clean energy, these are jobs that can’t be outsourced. These are jobs that have to be done in California and across America.
Now, what does Donald Trump propose? He proposes to build a wall. A wall.
Now, honestly, we’ve been trying to figure out about that wall. We’d figure it would cost about $25 billion.
Now, think about what else we could use $25 billion for. We could 1,500 new elementary schools so kids have a chance to go to a modern, good elementary school.
We could pay for college for 300,000 veterans if we did that.
So there’s a lot that we will have to talk about when we finally get to stand on that stage together.

And the other thing about Trump’s policies is he doesn’t give you specifics. Have you noticed that? It’s pretty much a topline, top of the water sort of proposal.
And yet, one thing we do know is when it comes to tax policies, he has two ideas.
One, he wants to have billionaires get even lower taxes. His tax plan is written by a billionaire for billionaires, best as I can tell. And he doesn’t want you to see his taxes.
Those are his two principles when it comes to taxes.
Now, I disagree with that.
Number one, I think we should tax the wealthy. They have not been paying their fair share to support America.
And number two, my husband and I have released 33 years of tax returns.
And the only two years that Donald Trump has released, he had to release to get a casino. So he had to come up with his income tax returns. The only two years he’s released, he paid zero in federal income tax. Zero!
And yet, he goes around saying he wants to build up the military, make it the strongest in the world. Well, it is the strongest in the world and I will keep it the strongest in the world. But he won’t pay a penny to make that happen.
So anybody who’s been nominated by a major party has had to come up with their tax returns. We’re going talk about this everyday.
Because either he’s paid no taxes or he’s paid very little, the only way to find out which it is is for him to release.
Either he’s as wealthy as he claims or maybe he’s not, the only way to find out is for him to release.
Maybe he is really charitable or maybe he is not, only way to find out is for him to release.
So, it’s time [for Trump to release] his tax returns.
You know, the other thing is you never hear Donald Trump talk about education. He’s never said anything as best as I’ve heard.
Well, here’s where I stand.
We need early childhood education so every single child is well-prepared to succeed in school.
We need to be a partner to our teachers…[so they can] do the job that we expect them to do on behalf of our kids.
We need to make community college free so that you can get the additional training, skills, and education to get a job.
We need more technical education through high school programs, community college programs, business supported, union supported apprenticeships. We need to have more ways for people to get the skills that will be competitive for themselves and for their families.
I’m excited about that. Nobody works harder than Americans. Nobody. Nobody in the world works harder than Americans.
And we’re going to make it possible for every young person and maybe not so young person to get the skills that will enable that person to have a good job with a rising income.
Education is a part of that. That’s why I want you to have debt-free tuition. You won’t have to borrow a penny to go to a public college or university.
And we have a plan to help you pay down and pay off your debt. So you’re not burdened by your student debt, which is such a problem.
So I think what I’m proposing will help grow the economy. And I’ve got to tell you it’s just a historic fact – the economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And you know, you don’t go back to the beginning of the Republic. Go back to the 1990s.
After eight years, 23 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody, not just those at the top. Middle class families. Working families. Poor families. More people lifted out of poverty than at any time in recent history.
We were on the right track. We even had a balanced budget and a surplus. We could have paid down the national debt.
So what happened? I’ll tell you what happened. The Republicans came back and slashed taxes on the wealthy, took their eyes off of the mortgage and finance markets, and you know what happened – the worst financial crisis since the Great Recession.

…There’s some videos that surfaced where Donald Trump is actually rooting – rooting – for a housing collapse because he said, “Well, I’ll be able to make a lot of money.”
Five con artists. Five million homes were lost. A lot of homes here in California and where I just was in Nevada.
Think of the heartbreak. Think of the suffering and disappointment.
So we know a lot about Donald Trump. He roots for himself, not for you. He wants a good result for himself. He doesn’t care who gets hurt in the process.
That is not the kind of person who should be the president of the United States of America. We cannot let that happen.
And you know, when it comes to health care, he wants to do away with the Affordable Care Act.
I’ll tell you, I want to make it better. I want to improve it. I want to get the costs down.
Before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare. I am committed to doing this.
And we’re going to get prescriptions drugs down.
And there’s two other issues we’re going to address – mental health and addiction. There is just too much suffering.
People with mental health are not getting the treatment they deserve to get. And there still is a stigma. We’ve got to stop this. People who have diabetes should get treated just like people who have depression should get treated.
And we’ve got to do more to move people who are addicted onto the path for treatment and recovery, not onto the path for jail or prison. That is not the right decision.
So I am looking forward to debating jobs, the economy, taxes, education, health care.
And I’m also looking forward to debating what is one of the most important parts of your decision when you vote and that is voting for someone who is both president and commander-in-chief.
Look, I understand why President Obama was in that meeting and trying to field all the questions and concerns from leaders around the world. Because look at what Trump has said in recent days.
He’s attacked our closest ally – Great Britain.
He has praised the dangerous dictator of North Korea. Now, this is a little funny though. He praised Kim Jong-un and the North Korean Ambassador to the U.N. came out yesterday and said they don’t want to talk to Donald Trump. I mean, I don’t attribute a lot of good sense to that regime but it’s probably the right decision.
Trump has even suggested it’s fine with him if more countries get nuclear weapons, for heaven’s sakes.
You know, for 70 plus years, Republicans and Democrats we’ve been trying to keep nuclear weapons out of more countries’ hands and certainly out of more terrorists’ hands. It’s one of the most serious risks we face. You can’t talk about nuclear weapons like it’s a walk in the park.
He’s even said he’d use nuclear weapons against ISIS, which is not even a state.
He wants to return to torture. He wants to pull out of NATO. He wants to ban all Muslims.
I mean, really. I could see why President Obama said that his counterparts were rattled. They’re watching this. You know, when you make these absurd, outrageous statements, that’s not just heard in the big hall where you talk; that’s heard around the world.
You know, people who count on the United States – our steadiness, our strength, our stability – they look to who is running for president. They look to who is president.
Now, in a lot of places, it is the beacon that keeps them going trying to figure out what is America doing, what is the American president saying.
And you think about the recent presidents we’ve had. We may have disagreed and had really serious differences, right? That’s part of the American DNA.
But I remember 9/11, George W. Bush went to an Islamic community center. Remember that? And basically said, “We are going to go after those who attacked us but we’re not going to be attacking each other.”

And President Obama has worked so hard to reach out to people everywhere.
And you know, it matters who’s sitting in that situation room. I’ve spent a lot of hours there. I’ve spent a lot of hours.
And I’ll just give you one example. It’s a famous example. It’s whether or not the president would go after Bin Laden based on the evidence, the intelligence that was presented. And I was asked to be part of the small group that was assessing this intelligence.
And we worked so hard because I personally having been a senator from New York on 9/11 having gone to Ground Zero 24 hours after we were attacked, I wanted to do anything I could to bring Bin Laden to justice.
And we had to evaluate this intelligence. Was this funny looking big building a place where the most wanted terrorist in the world could be hiding out?
We all went through it over and over again. And it came down to three choices.
Don’t do anything because it’s just not strong enough to act on. It’s okay but we don’t want to risk special forces so let’s use a missile to take this place out. Or it’s the best we’ve had to get him so let’s send in a SEAL team.
And then the president went around the room, around the table and ask everybody what we recommended. And people who I deeply respect, we were not all in agreement. Some people said no, you shouldn’t do it. Some people said it’s not worth the risk of a special forces team going in but if we think it’s good enough take the missile strike. And I was among those who said no, we have to find out. If we do a missile strike, we’ll never find out. We’ll never know.
So we all gave our advice. But then that moment comes. And this is what you need to think about. When the president gets up and says he’s going to go think about this because ultimately you can have all the advisers, all the people who are experts. But the president has to make the decision.
And you know he came back and he said “Yup, we’re going to go with a SEAL team.” And we all held our breadth that day when the attack occurred. We were all just under the most intense stress.
There were a lot – there was a lot of planning. People had done everything they could. The military was superb, thinking through every possible contingency. But things happen. One of those helicopters clipped the barbed wire on top of the wall and went down. But everything had been thought through.
So, Bin Laden was found. He was killed. His body was brought across the border and he was identified.
And no president wants to seek out those kinds of situations but every president faces those hard choices and we need a president who can be steady and strong.
And I promise you I will take good care of our men and women in uniform and I will protect our country and help to lead the world.
Now, finally let me say this there’s a lot of other issues that Trump has staked out. And I want you to know where I stand in comparison.
I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. And I will defend Planned Parenthood against the partisan attacks.
I will defend marriage equality and work to end discrimination against the LGBT community.
I will defend voting rights and appoint Supreme Court justices who will overturn Citizens United.
I will defend labor union and the right to organize and bargain collectively.

And I will stand up to the gun lobby and work to get common sense gun safety reforms.
Now, I can’t do any of this without your help. I want to unify the Democratic Party and I want to unify the United States of America.
I will go anywhere to meet with anyone to find common ground. I will also stand my ground.
But we’ve got to bring this country together. We do not need to be divided.
As Lincoln said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand.”
We cannot stand this kind of hate talk and rhetoric and demagoguery.
So here is what I’m asking you. If you’ve already gotten a ballot sent to your house, fill it in and send it in.
You could still get a ballot all the way up through May 31st if you want to vote like that. And please do if you think you might have trouble getting to the polls on June 7th.
And then on June 7th, please come out and vote and bring everybody you can who knows we’ve got to start right here in California making the future that we want to see for our country, for our children and grandchildren.
If you will vote for me California, I will work my heart out to get you the future that we deserve.
Thank you and God bless you!

Thank you so much! Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you! Thank you, San Diego, for that warm welcome.
…On Monday, we observed Memorial Day – a day that means a great deal to San Diego – home of so many active duty and former military and their families.
We honor the sacrifice of those who died for our country in many ways by living our values, by making this a stronger and fairer nation, and by carrying out a smart and principled foreign policy.
That’s what I want to speak about – the challenges we face in protecting our country and the choice at stake in this election.
It’s a choice between a fearful America that’s less secure and less engaged with the world and a strong confident America that leads to keep our country safe and our economy growing.
As Secretary of State, senator, and First Lady, I had the honor of representing America abroad and helping shape our foreign policy at home.
As a candidate for president there is nothing I take more seriously than our national security.
I’ve offered clear strategies for how to defeat ISIS, strengthen our alliances, and make sure Iran never gets a nuclear weapon.
And I’m going to keep America’s security at the heart of my campaign.
Because as you know so well Americans aren’t just electing a president in November; we’re choosing our next commander-in-chief – the person we count on to decide questions of war and peace, life and death.
And like many across our country and around the world, I believe the person the Republicans have nominated for president cannot do the job.
Donald Trump’s ideas aren’t just different. They are dangerously incoherent. They’re not even really ideas – just a series of bizarre rants, personal feuds, and outright lies.
He is not just unprepared. He is temperamentally unfit to hold an office that requires knowledge, stability, and immense responsibility.

This is not someone who should ever have the nuclear codes because it’s not hard to imagine Donald Trump leading us into a war just because somebody got under his very thin skin.
We cannot put the security of our children and grandchildren in Donald Trump’s hands.
We cannot let him roll the dice with America.
This is a man who said that more countries should have nuclear weapons, including Saudi Arabia.
This is someone who has threatened to abandon our allies in NATO – the countries that work with us to root out terrorists abroad before they strike us at home.
He believes he can treat the U.S. economy like one of his casinos and default on our debts to the rest of the world, which would cause an economic catastrophe far worse than anything we experienced in 2008.
He has said that he would order our military to carry out torture the murder of civilians who are related to suspected terrorists even though those are war crimes.
He said he doesn’t have to listen to our generals or admirals, our ambassadors and other high officials because he has a “very good brain”.
He also said “I know more about ISIS than the generals do. Believe me.” You know what? I don’t believe him.
He says climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese, and he has the gall to say that prisoners of war like John McCain aren’t heroes. Exactly.
He praises dictators like Vladimir Putin and picks fights with our friends, including the British Prime Minister, the Mayor of London, the German Chancellor, the President of Mexico, and the Pope.
He says he has foreign policy experience because he ran the Miss Universe pageant in Russia.
And to top it off, he believes America is weak, an embarrassment. He called our military “a disaster”.
He said we are – and I quote – “a third world country”. And he’s been saying things like that for decades.
Those are the words, my friends, of someone who doesn’t understand America or the world.
And they’re the words of someone who would lead us in the wrong direction because if you really believe America is weak with our military, our values, our capabilities that no other country comes close to matching, then you don’t know America and you certainly don’t deserve to lead it.
That’s why even if I weren’t in this race, I’d be doing everything I could to make sure Donald Trump never becomes president because I believe he will take our country down a truly dangerous path.
Unlike him, I have some experience with the tough calls and the hard work of state craft.
I wrestled with the Chinese over a climate deal in Copenhagen, brokered a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas, negotiated the reduction of nuclear weapons with Russia, twisted arms to bring the world together in global sanctions against Iran, and stood up for the rights of women, religious minorities, and LGBT people around the world.
And I have in the situation room advised the president on some of the toughest choices he faced.

So I’m not new to this work and I’m proud to run on my record because I think the choice before the American people in this election is clear.
I believe in strong alliances, clarity in dealing with our rivals, and a rock solid commitment to the values that have always made America great.
And I believe with all my heart that America is an exceptional country that we’re still in Lincoln’s words the “last best hope” of Earth.
We are not a country that cowers behind walls. We lead with purpose and we prevail.
And if America doesn’t lead, we leave a vacuum and that will either cause chaos or other countries will rush in to fill the void. Then they’ll be the ones making the decisions about your lives and jobs and safety, and trust me, the choices they make will not be to our benefit. That is not an outcome we can live with.
As I see it, there are some important things our next president must do to secure American leadership and keep us safe and our economy growing in the years ahead.
These are all areas in which Donald Trump and I profoundly disagree and they are all critical to our future.
First, we need to be strong at home. That means investing in our infrastructure, education, and innovation – the fundamentals of a strong economy.
We need to reduce income inequality because our country can’t lead effectively when so many are struggling to provide the basics for their families.
And we need to break down the barriers that hold Americans back including barriers of bigotry and discrimination.
Compare that with what Trump wants to do.
His economic plans would add more than $30 trillion – that’s trillion with a T – $30 trillion to our national debt over the next 20 years.
He has no ideas on education, no ideas on innovation.
He has a lot of ideas about who to blame but no clue about what to do.
None of what Donald Trump is offering will make America stronger at home and that would make us weaker in the world.
Second, we need to stick with our allies. America’s network of allies is part of what makes us exceptional and our allies deliver for us everyday.
Our armed forces fight terrorists together. Our diplomats fight side by side. Allies provide staging areas for our military so we can respond quickly to events on the other side of the world and they share intelligence that helps us identify and defuse potential threats.
Take the threat posed by North Korea, perhaps the most repressive regime on the planet run by a sadistic dictator who wants to develop long-range missiles that could carry a nuclear weapon to the United States.
When I was Secretary of State, we worked closely with our allies – Japan and South Korea – to respond to this threat, including by creating a missile defense system that stands ready to shoot down a North Korean warhead should its leaders ever be reckless enough to launch one at us.
The technology is ours. Key parts of it are located on Japanese ships. All three countries contributed to it, and this month all three of our militaries will run a joint drill to test it. That’s the power of allies.
And it’s also the legacy of American troops who fought and died to secure those bonds because they knew we were safer with friends and partners.
Now, Moscow and Beijing are deeply envious of our alliances around the world because they have nothing to match them.
They’d love for us to elect a president who would jeopardize that source of strength.
If Donald gets his way, they’ll be celebrating in the Kremlin. We cannot let that happen.

That’s why it is no small passing thing when he talks about leaving NATO or says he’ll stay neutral on Israel’s security.
It’s no small thing when he calls Mexican immigrants “rapists” and “murderers”.
We’re lucky to have two friendly neighbors on our land borders. Why would he want to make one of them an enemy?
And it’s no small thing when he suggested America should withdraw our military support for Japan, encourage them to get nuclear weapons, and he said this about a war between Japan and North Korea – and I quote – “If they do, they do. Good luck! Enjoy yourself, folks.”
I wonder if he even realizes he’s talking about nuclear war.
Yes, our friends need to contribute their fair share. I’ve made that point long before Donald Trump came onto the scene and a number of them have increased their defense spending.
The real debate here is whether we keep those alliances strong or cut them off. What he says would weaken our country.
Third, we need to embrace all the tools of American power, especially diplomacy and development, to be on the front lines solving problems before they threaten us at home.
Diplomacy is often the only way to avoid a conflict that could end up exacting a much greater cost. It takes patience, persistence and an eye on the long game but it’s worth it.
Take the nuclear agreement with Iran.
When President Obama took office, Iran was racing towards a nuclear bomb. Some called for military action but that could have ignited a broader war that could have mired our troops in another Middle Eastern conflict.
President Obama chose a different path and I got to work leading the work to impose crippling sanctions. We brought Iran to the table. We began talks. And eventually, we reached an agreement that should block every path for Iran to get a nuclear weapon.
Now, we must enforce that deal vigorously. And I’ve said many times before, our approach must be distrust and verify.
The world must understand that the United States will act decisively if necessary including with military action to stop Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
In particular, Israel’s security is non-negotiable. They’re our closest ally in the region and we have a moral obligation to defend them.
But there is no question that the world and the United States – we are safer now than we were before this agreement and we accomplished it without firing a single shot, dropping a single bomb or putting a single American soldier in harm’s way.
Now, Donald Trump says we shouldn’t have done the deal – we should have walked away. But that would have meant no more global sanctions and Iran resuming their nuclear program and the world blaming us. So then what? War? Telling the world “Good luck. You deal with Iran”?
Of course, Trump doesn’t have answers to those questions. Donald Trump doesn’t know the first thing about Iran or its nuclear program. Ask him. It’ll become very clear very quickly.
You know, there’s no risk of people losing their lives if you blow up a golf course deal. But it doesn’t work like that in world affairs. Just like being interviewed on the same episode of 60 Minutes as Putin was is not the same thing as dealing with Putin.
So the stakes in global state craft are infinitely higher and more complex than the world of luxury hotels.
We all know the tools Donald Trump brings to the table – bragging, mocking, composing nasty tweets. I’m willing to bet he’s writing a few right now.

But those tools won’t do the trick.
Rather than solving global crises, he would create new ones.
He has no sense of what it takes to deal with multiple countries with competing interests and reaching a solution that everyone can get behind. In fact, he is downright contemptuous of that work and that means he is much more likely to end up leading us into conflict.
Fourth, we need to be firm but wise with our rivals.
Countries like Russia and China often work against us.
Beijing dumps cheap steel in our markets. That hurts American workers.
Moscow has taken aggressive military action in Ukraine, right on NATO’s doorstep.
Now, I’ve gone toe to toe with Russia and China and many other different leaders around the world. So I know we have to be able to both stand our ground when we must and find common ground when we can.
That’s how I can work with Russia to conclude the New START Treaty to reduce nuclear stockpiles and with China to increase pressure on North Korea. It’s how our diplomats negotiated the landmark agreement on climate change which Trump now wants to rip up.
The key was never forgetting who we were dealing with – not friends or allies but countries that share some common interests with us amid many disagreements.
Donald doesn’t see the complexity. He wants to start a trade war with China.
And I understand a lot of Americans have concerns about our trade agreements. I do too.
But a trade war is something very different.
We went that road in the 1930s. It made the Great Depression longer and more painful.
Combine that with his comments about defaulting on our debt and it’s not hard to see how a Trump presidency could lead to a global economic crisis.
And I have to say I don’t understand Donald’s bizarre fascination with dictators and strongmen who have no love for America.
He praised China for the Tiananmen Square massacre. He said it showed strength.
He said, “You’ve got to give Kim Jong Un credit for taking over North Korea” – something he did by murdering everyone he saw as a threat, including his own uncle, which Donald described gleefully like he was recapping an action movie.
And he said if he were grading Vladimir Putin as a leader, he’d give him an A.
Now, I will leave it to the psychiatrist to explain his affection for tyrants. I just wonder how anyone could be so wrong about who America’s real friends are because it matters.
If you don’t know exactly who you’re dealing with, men like Putin will eat your lunch.
Now, fifth, we need a real plan for confronting terrorists.
As we saw six months ago in San Bernardino, the threat is real and urgent.
Over the past year, I’ve laid out my plans for defeating ISIS.
We need to take out their strongholds in Iraq and Syria by intensifying the air campaign and stepping up our support for Arab and Kurdish forces on the ground.
We need to keep pursuing diplomacy to end Syria’s civil war and close Iraq’s sectarian divide because those conflicts are keeping ISIS alive.
We need to lash up with our allies and ensure our intelligence services are working hand in hand to dismantle the global network that supplies money, arms, propaganda, and fighters to the terrorists.
And we need to win the battle in cyberspace.
And of course, we need to strengthen our defenses here at home.
Now that in a nutshell is my plan for defeating ISIS.
What’s Trump’s? Well, he won’t say. He’s literally keeping it a secret. The secret of course is he has no idea what he’d do to stop ISIS.
Just look at the few things he’s actually said on the subject. He actually said – and I quote – “Maybe Syria should be a free zone for ISIS.”
Oh, okay, let a terrorist group have control of a major country in the Middle East.
Then he said we should send tens of thousands of American ground troops to the Middle East to fight ISIS.

He also refused to rule out nuclear weapons against ISIS, which would mean mass civilian casualties.
It’s clear he doesn’t have a clue what he’s talking about so we can’t be certain which of these things he would do.
But we can be certain that he’s capable of doing any or all of them – letting ISIS run wild, launching a nuclear attack, starting a ground war. These are all distinct possibilities with Donald Trump in charge.
And through all his loose talk, there’s one constant theme – demonizing Muslims and playing right into the hands of ISIS.
His proposal to ban 1.5 billion Muslims from even coming to our country doesn’t just violate the religious freedom our country was founded on. It’s a huge propaganda victory for ISIS and it alienates the very countries we need to help us win in this fight.
A Trump presidency would embolden ISIS.
We cannot take that risk. This isn’t reality television. This is actual reality.
And defeating global terrorist networks and protecting the homeland takes more than empty talk and a handful of slogans. It takes a real plan, real experience, and real leadership. Donald Trump lacks all three.
And one more thing. A president has a sacred responsibility to send our troops into battle only if we absolutely must and only with a clear and well-thought out strategy.
Our troops give their all; they deserve a commander-in-chief who knows that.
I’ve worked side by side with generals and admirals and visited our troops in theaters of war. I’ve fought for better health care for National Guard, better services for our veterans, more support for our Gold Star Families.
We cannot put the lives of our young men and women in uniform in Donald Trump’s hands.
Now, sixth, we need to stay true to our values.
Trump says over and over again the world is laughing at us. He’s been saying this for decades.
He didn’t just start this year. He bought full page ads in newspapers across America back in 1987 when Ronald Reagan was president saying that America lacked a backbone and the world was – you guessed it – laughing at us.
He was wrong then and he’s wrong now.
And you’ve got to wonder why somebody who fundamentally has so little confidence in America and has felt that way for at least 30 years wants to be our president.
The truth is there is not a country in the world that can rival us. It’s not just that we have the greatest military or that our economy is larger, more durable, more entrepreneurial than any in the world. It’s also that Americans work harder, dream bigger, and we never ever stop trying to make our country and the world a better place.
So, it really matters that Donald Trump says things that go against our deepest held values. It matters when he says he’ll order our military to murder the families of suspected terrorists.
During the raid to kill Bin Laden, when every second counted, our SEALs took the time to move the women and the children in the compound to safety. Donald Trump may not get it but that’s what honor looks like.
And you know what? It also matters when he makes fun of people with disabilities, calls women pigs, proposes banning an entire religion from our country, or plays coy with white supremacists.
America stands up to countries that treat women like animals or people of different races or religions or ethnicities as less human.

What happens to the moral example we set for the world and for our own children if our president engages in bigotry?
And by the way, Mr. Trump, every time you insult American Muslims or Mexican immigrants, remember that plenty of Muslims and immigrants serve and fight in our armed forces.
Donald Trump could learn something from them.
And that brings me to the final point I want to make today – the temperament it takes to be commander-in-chief.
Every president faces hard choices everyday with imperfect information and conflicting imperatives. That’s the job.
A revolution threatens to topple a government in a key region. An adversary reaches out for the first time in years. What do you do?
Making the right call takes a cool head and respect for the facts.
It takes a willingness to listen to other people’s points of view with a truly open mind.
It also takes humility knowing you don’t know everything because if you’re convinced you’re always right, you’ll never ask yourself the hard questions.
I remember being in the Situation Room with President Obama debating the Bin Laden operation. The president’s advisers were divided. The intelligence was compelling but far from definitive. And the risks of failure were daunting.
The stakes were significant for our battles against Al Qaeda and our relationship with Pakistan.
Most of all, the lives of those brave SEALs and helicopter pilots hung in the balance.
It was a decision only a president could make. And when he did, it was as crisp and courageous a display of leadership as I’ve ever seen.
Now, imagine Donald Trump sitting in the Situation Room making life or death decisions on behalf of the United States, imagine him deciding whether to send your spouses or children into battle, imagine if he had not just his Twitter account at his disposal when he’s angry but America’s entire arsenal.
Do we want him making those calls? Someone thin-skinned and quick to anger, who lashes out at the smallest criticism. Do we want his finger anywhere near the button?

Well, I have a lot of faith that the American people will make the right decision. This is a country with a deep reservoir of common sense and national pride and we’re all counting on that.
Because making Donald Trump our commander-in-chief would be a historic mistake and it would undo so much of the work that Republicans and Democrats alike have done over many decades to make America stronger and more secure.
It would set back our standing in the world more than anything in recent memory.
And it would fuel an ugly narrative about who we are – that we’re fearful, not confident, that we want to let others determine our future for us instead of shaping our own destiny. That’s not the America I know and love.
So yes, we have a lot of work to do to keep our country secure and we need to do better by American families and American workers and we will.
But don’t let anyone tell you America isn’t great. Donald Trump’s got America all wrong. We are a big hearted, fair-minded country.
There is no challenge we can’t meet, no goal we can’t achieve when we each do our part and come together as one nation.
Every lesson from our history teaches us that we are stronger together. We remember that every Memorial Day.
And this election is a choice between two very different visions of America – one that’s angry, afraid, and based on the idea that America is fundamentally weak and in decline. The other is hopeful, generous, and confident in the knowledge that America is great just like we always have been.
So, let’s resolve that we can be greater still. That is what I believe in my heart.
I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State and I never lost my sense of pride and wonder at seeing that blue and white plane lit up on some far off runway with the United States of America emblazoned on the side. That plane, those words, our country represent something special, not just to us but the world. It represents freedom, hope, and opportunity.
I love this country and I know you do too. It’s been an honor and a privilege to serve America, and I’m going to do everything that I can to protect our nation and make sure we never lose sight of how strong we really are.
Thank you all very much!

…I am so grateful to you. It is wonderful to be back in Brooklyn here in this beautiful building.
And it may be hard to see tonight but we are all standing under a glass ceiling right now. But don’t worry. We’re not smashing this one.
Thanks to you we’ve reached a milestone – first time in our nation’s history that a woman will be a major party’s nominee [for president of the United States].
Tonight’s victory is not about one person; it belongs to generations of women and men who struggled and sacrificed and made this moment possible.
In our country, it started right here in New York – a place called Seneca Falls in 1848 – when a small but determined group of women and men came together with the idea that women deserve equal rights. And they set it forth in something called the Declaration of Sentiments, and it was the first time in human history that that kind of declaration occurred.
So we all owe so much to those who came before, and tonight belongs to all of you.

I want to thank all the volunteers, community leaders, the activists and organizers who supported our campaign in every state and territory.
And thanks especially to our friends in New Jersey for such a sound victory tonight.
Thanks for talking to your neighbors, for making contributions. Your efforts have produced a strong majority of the popular vote, victories in a majority of the contests, and after tonight a majority of pledged delegates.
I want to thank all the people across our country who have taken the time to talk with me. I’ve learned a lot about you and I’ve learned about those persistent problems and the unfinished promise of America you are living with.
So many of you feel like you’re out there on your own, that no one has your back. Well, I do. I hear you. I see you. And as your president, I will always have your back.
I want to congratulate Sen. Sanders for the extraordinary campaign he has run. He has spent his long career in public service, fighting for progressive causes and principles, and he’s excited millions of voters, especially young people.
And let there be no mistake. Sen. Sanders, his campaign, and the vigorous debate that we’ve had about how to raise incomes, reduce inequality, increase upward mobility have been very good for the Democratic Party and for America.
This has been a hard-fought, deeply felt campaign. But whether you supported me or Sen. Sanders or one of the Republicans, we all need to keep working toward a better, fairer, stronger America.

Now, I know it never feels good to put your heart into a cause or a candidate you believe in and to come up short. I know that feeling well.
But was we look ahead, to the battle that awaits, let’s remember that all that unites us.
We all want an economy with more opportunity and less inequality, where Wall Street can never wreck Main Street again.
We all want a government that listens to the people, not the power brokers, which means getting unaccountable money out of politics.
And we all want a society that is tolerant, inclusive, and fair.
We all believe that America succeeds when more people share in our prosperity, when more people have a voice in our political system, when more people can contribute to their communities.
We believe that cooperation is better than conflict, unity is better than division, empowerment is better than resentment, and bridges are better than walls.
It’s a simple but powerful idea. We believe that we are stronger together and the stakes in this election are high and the choice is clear. Donald Trump is temperamentally unfit to be president and commander-in-chief.
And he’s not just trying to build a wall between America and Mexico; he’s trying to wall off Americans from each other.
When he says “Let’s make America great again”, that is code for let’s take America backwards – back to a time when opportunity and dignity were reserved for some, not all, promising his supporters an economy he cannot recreate.
We, however, we want to write the next chapter in American greatness with a 21st century prosperity that lifts everyone who’s been left out and left behind, including those who may not vote for us but who deserve their chance to make a new beginning.

When Donald Trump says a distinguished judge born in Indiana can’t do his job because of his Mexican heritage or he mocks a reporter with disabilities or calls women “pigs”, it goes against everything we stand for.
Because we want an America where everyone is treated with respect and where their work is valued.
It’s clear that Donald Trump doesn’t believe we are stronger together. He has abused his primary opponents and their families, attacked the press for asking tough questions, denigrated Muslims and immigrants.
He wants to win by stoking fear and rubbing salt in wounds and reminding us daily just how great he is.
Well, we believe we should lift each other up, not tear each other down.
We believe we need to give Americans a raise, not complain that hardworking people’s wages are too high.
We believe we need to help young people struggling with student debt, not pile more on our national debt with giveaways to the super wealthy.
We believe we need to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century, not insist that climate change is a hoax.
To be great, we can’t be small. We have to be as big as the values that define America, and we are a big-hearted fair-minded country.
We teach our children that this is one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all – not just for people who look a certain way or worship a certain way or love a certain way. For all – indivisible.

This election is not however about the same old fights between Democrats and Republicans. This election is different. It really is about who we are as a nation.
It’s about millions of Americans coming together to say we are better than this; we won’t let this happen in America.
And if you agree whether you’re a Democrat, Republican, or Independent, I hope you will join us.
In just a few weeks, we will meet in Philadelphia, which gave birth to our nation back in that hot summer of 1776.
Those early patriots knew they would all rise or fall together. Well, today that’s more true than ever.
Our campaign will take this message to every corner of our country. We’re stronger when our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top, with good paying jobs and good schools in every zip code and the real commitment to all families and all regions of our nation.
We are stronger when we work with our allies around the world to keep us safe and we are stronger when we respect each other, listen to each other, and act with a sense of common purpose.
We’re stronger when every family and every community knows they’re not on their own because we are in this together. It really does take a village to raise a child and to build a stronger future for us all.
I learned this a long time ago from the biggest influence in my life – my mother. She was my rock from the day I was born ’til the day she left us.
She overcame a childhood marked by abandonment and mistreatment and somehow managed not to become bitter or broken.
My mother believed that life is about serving others, and she taught me never to back down from a bully, which it turns out was pretty good advice.
This past Saturday would have been her 97th birthday because she was born on June 4, 1919, and some of you may know the significance of that date. The very day my mother was born in Chicago, Congress was passing the 19th Amendment to the Constitution. That amendment finally gave women the right to vote.
And I really wish my mother could be here tonight. I wish she could see what a wonderful mother Chelsea has become and could meet our beautiful granddaughter, Charlotte. And of course, I wish she could see her daughter become the Democratic Party’s nominee for president of the United States.

So yes, there are still ceilings to break for women and men, for all of us. But don’t let anyone tell you that great things can’t happen in America.
Barriers can come down. Justice and equality can win. Our history has moved in that direction – slowly at times but unmistakably – thanks to generations of Americans who refuse to give up or back down.
Now, you are writing a new chapter of that story. This campaign is about making sure there are no ceilings, no limits on any of us, and this is our moment to come together.
So please, join our campaign, volunteer, go to HillaryClinton.com, contribute what you can, text join – J-O-I-N – to 47246. Help us organize in all 50 states.
Every phone call you make, every door you knock on will move us forward.
Now, I’m going to take a moment later tonight and the days ahead to fully absorb the history we’ve made here. But what I care about most is the history our country has yet to write.
Our children and grandchildren will look back at this time, at the choices we are about to make, the goals we will strive for, the principles we will live by.
And we need to make sure that they can be proud of us.
The end of the primaries is only the beginning of the work we’re called to do. But if we stand together, we will rise together because we are stronger together. Let’s go out and make that case to America.
Thank you! God bless you! And God bless America!

Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you! Thank you all!
…I want to thank my friend and your courage leader, Cecile Richards. You know, Cecile really is the definition of grace under pressure. She has proven that time and time again over the course of her career and particularly over the last few years.
She really is like another great American. Her mother, Ann Richards, who was a friend of mine, and I just wish Ann were here to see this election. She’d have Donald Trump tweeting double time.
We reached a milestone this week thanks to you and people all over our country. For the first time, a woman will be a major party’s nominee for president of the United States.
And yesterday, I had the great honor of being endorsed by President Obama and Vice President Biden and by Sen. Elizabeth Warren.
So, it’s been a big week and there’s nowhere I’d rather end it than right here with the Planned Parenthood Action Fund.
I’m grateful to the entire Planned Parenthood family. You made this campaign your own. Whether you knocked on doors in Iowa or rallied in California, this victory belongs to all of you.
And it belongs to the 1,000 young activists who came together in Pittsburgh last month to get organized.
It belongs to the staff, the donors and to the providers like Dr. Amna Dermish in Texas who called out Donald Trump when he said women should be punished for having abortions and the open letter she wrote defending her patients’ right to make their own health decisions should be required reading for every politician in America.

And I am deeply conscious of the reality that this victory belongs to generations of brave women and men who fought for the radical idea that women should determine our own lives and future.
And it belongs to the women and men who continue to fight for that idea today even in the face of threats and violence.
When a man who never should have had a gun killed three people at Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs, leaders in this room voted unanimously to keep health centers across America open the next day.
And the CEO of Planned Parenthood Rocky Mountains made a promise to patients in Colorado and beyond when she said “Our doors and our hearts stay open.”
That is really what Planned Parenthood is about.
So today, I want to start by saying something you don’t hear often enough. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you for being there for women no matter their race, sexual orientation, or immigration status.
Thank you for being there for Natarsha McQueen [sp] in Brooklyn who told me how Planned Parenthood caught her breast cancer when she was just 33 years old and saved her life.
Thank you for being there for college students getting STD testing. The young people who have the tough questions that they’re afraid to ask their parents. The sexual assaults survivors who turn to Planned Parenthood for compassionate care. The transgendered teens who’d come for an appointment and find the first place where they can truly be themselves.
Thank you for being there for your communities, whether that means taking on hostile politicians in Louisiana or handing out clean drinking water in Flint, Michigan.
And thank you for being there for every woman in every state who has to miss work, drive hundreds of miles sometimes, endure cruel medically unnecessary waiting periods, walk past angry protesters to exercise her constitutional right to safe and legal abortion.
I’ve been proud to stand with Planned Parenthood for a long time, and as your president, I will always have your back.
Because I know that for a century, Planned Parenthood has worked to make sure that women, men, young people who count on you can lead their best lives healthy, safe, and free to follow their dreams.
Just think when Planned Parenthood was founded women couldn’t vote or serve on juries in most states. It was illegal even to provide information about birth control let alone prescribe it.
But people marched and organized. They protested unjust laws. And in some cases even went to prison.
And slowly but surely America changed for the better.
51 years ago this week, thanks to a Planned Parenthood employee named Estelle Griswold, the Supreme Court legalized birth control for married couples across America.

When I used to teach law and I would point to this case, a look of total bewilderment would come across my students’ faces.
And not long after that, Roe v. Wade guaranteed the right to safe, legal abortions so young women were no longer dying in emergency rooms and back alleys from botched illegal abortions.
And this is a fact that is not often heard but I hope you will repeat it. America’s maternal mortality rate dropped dramatically.
And it turns out, being able to plan their families not only saved women’s lives, it also transformed them.
Because it meant women were able to get education, build careers, enter new fields, and rise as far as their talent and hard work would take them – all the opportunities that followed when women are able to stay healthy and choose whether and when to become mothers.
And you know so well today the percentage of women who finish college is six times what it was before birth control was legal.
Women represent half of all college graduates in America and nearly half our labor force. And our whole economy then is better off.
The movement of women into the workforce – the paid workforce – over the past 40 years was responsible for more $3.5 trillion in growth in our economy.
And here’s another fact that doesn’t get enough attention. Unintended pregnancy, teen pregnancy, and abortion rates are at all time record lows.
That reality and studies confirm what Planned Parenthood knew all along – accurate sex education and effective, affordable contraception work.
And you know, it wasn’t so long ago that Republicans and Democrats actually stood together on these issues.
Back in the 90s when I helped to create the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, I worked with Republicans to get it done.
Now, things feel quite different now, don’t they?
Instead of working to continue the progress we’ve made, Republicans, led now by Donald Trump, are working to reverse it.
When Donald Trump says “Let’s make America great again”, that is code for let’s take America backward – back to a time when opportunity and dignity were reserved for some, not all, back to the days when abortion was illegal, women had far fewer options, and life for too many women and girls were limited.
Well, Donald, those days are over.
We are not going to let Donald Trump or anyone else turn back the clock.
And that means we’ve got to get to work because as you know better than anyone, right now across the country, rights that women should be able to take for granted are under attack.
Anyway now, the Supreme Court will rule on the Texas law that imposes burdensome and medically unnecessary requirements on abortion providers. If these restrictions are allowed to stand, 5.4 million women of reproductive age will be left with about 10 health centers that provide abortion in the state a size of France.
It is the biggest challenge to Roe v. Wade in a generation.

It’s also yet another reminder of what’s at stake on the Supreme Court.
President Obama has done his job and nominated Merrick Garland to be the ninth justice. It’s time for the Senate Republicans to do their job.
The Senate should give Judge Garland the hearing he deserves.
Now, meanwhile, in just the first three months of 2016, states across the country introduced more than 400 restrictions on abortion. 11 states have defunded Planned Parenthood in the last year, cutting some women off from their only health care provider.
And of course, on a national level, Republicans in Congress have been willing to shut down the entire federal government over Planned Parenthood funding.
Have you ever noticed that the same politicians who are against sex education, birth control, and safe and legal abortion are also against policies that would make it easier to raise a child, like paid family leave?
They are for limited government everywhere except when it comes to interfering with women’s choices and rights.
Well, I’m here today to tell you we need to be just as determined as they are. We need to defend Planned Parenthood against partisan attacks.
If right wing politicians actually cared as much about protecting women’s health as they say they do, they’d join me in calling for more federal funding for Planned Parenthood.
We also need to fight back against the erosion of reproductive rights at the federal, state, and local levels, ensure that patients and staff can safely walk into health centers without harassment or violence.
We need to stand up for access to affordable contraception without interference from politicians or employers.
And let’s invest in long-acting reversible contraceptives so every woman can choose the method that is best for her.
Let’s strengthen and improve the Affordable Care Act, which covers 20 million Americans and saves women millions of dollars through no co-pay preventive care.
And let’s take action to stop the spread of the Zika virus, which threatens the health of children and pregnant women.
Let’s repeal laws like the Hyde Amendment that make it nearly impossible for low-income women, disproportionately women of color, to exercise their full reproductive rights.
And it is worth saying again – defend women’s health means defending access to abortion, not just in theory but in reality.
We know that restricting access doesn’t make women less likely to end a pregnancy. It just makes abortion less safe and that then threatens women’s lives.
For too long, issues like these have been dismissed by many as women’s issues – as though that somehow that makes them less worthy, secondary.
Well, yes, these are women’s issues. They’re also family issues. They’re economic issues. They’re justice issues. They’re fundamental to our country and our future.

And beyond these specific issues, we need to keep working to support women and families in other ways by getting incomes rising, including the minimum wage, which disproportionately affects women.
We need to finally guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
We need to pass comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship that keeps families together.
And we need to break down all the barriers of discrimination and systemic racism that hold too many Americans back.
And we need to come together to stop the epidemic of gun violence that is stalking our country.
No parent should live in fear that their child will be hurt or killed by gun violence. 33,000 Americans are killed every year.
I’ve met so many mothers on this campaign who have lost their own children. We owe it to them to protect our kids no matter what zip code they live in and that is going to require standing up to the gun lobby and making this a voting issue.
You know, all the issues that we’re talking about today are connected. They intersect.
And that’s why I’m grateful to the reproductive justice leaders in this room and across America.
Because you know that all these issues go straight to that fundamental question whether we believe women and families of all races and backgrounds and income levels deserve an equal shot in life. Now, that’s what I believe.
And you won’t be surprised to hear Donald Trump believes something very different. He actually thinks guaranteeing paid family leave would leave America less competitive. He says if women want equal pay, we should just – and this is a quote – do as a good a job as men as if we weren’t already.
He wants to appoint justices who would overturn Roe v. Wade. He of course wants to defund Planned Parenthood. And he wants to go after so many of the fundamental rights we have, including safe and legal abortions. And he actually said women should be punished for having abortions.
Now, once he said that, there was an outcry as there should have been. And he tried to walk back his comments. He’s doing that a lot lately.
But anyone who would so casually agree to the idea of punishing women like it was nothing to him, the most obvious thing in the world, that’s someone who doesn’t hold women in high regard. Because if he did, he would trust women to make the right decisions for ourselves.
But don’t worry, Donald assures us that as president he’ll be – and I quote again – the best for women.
Anyone who wants to defund Planned Parenthood and wipe out safe and legal abortion has no idea what’s best for women.
And after all, this is a man who has called women “pigs”, “dogs”, and “disgusting animals”.
Kind of hard to imagine counting on him to respect our fundamental rights when he says pregnant women are an inconvenience to their employer. What does that say about how he values women, our work, our contributions?
We’re in the middle of a concerted persistent assault on women’s health across our country.
And we have to ask ourselves and you have to ask everyone you come in contact with: Do we want to put our health, our lives, our futures in Donald Trump’s hands?
Now, these questions are not hypothetical. Every woman and everyone who cares about women will answer them when they vote in November.

Now, when I talk like this, Donald Trump likes to say I’m playing the woman card. And I like to say if fighting for equal pay, Planned Parenthood, and the ability to make our own health decisions is playing the woman card, then deal me in!
Now, my friends, I come to this issue of course as a woman, a mother, and a grandmother now.
But I also come to it as a former First Lady, Senator, and Secretary of State, and in those roles, I traveled to parts of the world where girls are married off as soon as they are old enough to bear children, places where the denial of family planning cosigns women to lives of hardship. I visited countries where governments have strictly regulated women’s reproduction either forcing women to have abortions or forcing women to get pregnant and give birth.
Everything that I have seen has convinced me that life is freer, fairer, healthier, safer and far more humane when women are empowered to make their own reproductive health decisions.
And everything I’ve heard from Donald Trump often seems to echo other leaders who have a very different view of women.
The late great Maya Angelou said “When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.”
Donald Trump has shown us who he is and we sure should believe him.
And it’s not just on reproductive rights. Donald Trump would take us in the wrong direction on so many issues we care about – economic justice, workers’ rights, civil rights, human rights, the environment – all of that is on the line in this election.
When Donald Trump says a distinguished judge born in Indiana can’t do his job because of his Mexican heritage or mocks a reporter with disabilities or denigrates Muslims and immigrants, it goes against everything we stand for. He does not see all Americans as Americans.
So this election isn’t about the same old fights between Democrats and Republicans, they’ll be there, don’t worry. But this election is profoundly different.
It is about who we are as a nation. It’s about millions of Americans coming together to say “We are better than this.”
So here’s my promise to you today. I will be your partner in this election and over the long haul.
Together, we’re taking on the attacks and together, we will come out stronger just like Planned Parenthood has time and again.
And together, we’re going to unify our country, stop Donald Trump, and fight for an America where we lift each other up instead of tear each other down.
We’re not just going to break that highest and hardest glass ceiling. We’re going to break down all the barriers that hold women and families back because you know we do believe we’re stronger when every family in every community knows they’re not on their own. We are stronger together and we’re going to make history together in November.
Thank you all so much!

Thank you! Thank you all very much! Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
I am absolutely delighted to be back in Cleveland and to be here at the Industrial Innovation Center. I’ve had a chance to learn about the great work you do here.
I especially want to applaud Team Wendy for everything you do to protect our troops, first responders, and others from traumatic brain injury. It is so important that we continue to support those who protect us.
It is good to be back in Cleveland, I can tell you that.
I want to thank your extraordinary Sen. Sherrod Brown for his leadership, for that very kind and generous introduction. You are very fortunate to have him representing you.
I want to thank your Congresswoman, Marcia Fudge, who is both indomitable and indefatigable. She is such a tenacious advocate for the people she represents.
I want to acknowledge the mayor – Mayor Jackson – who is here, County Executive Budish.
And I particularly want to recognize the passing of George Voinovich. And he devoted his life to serving the people of Ohio as mayor of Cleveland, as governor and senator and we send our prayers and sympathy to his family.
I also want to thank Dan Moore, the owner and founder of this company and Team Wendy, for his belief in Cleveland, for his commitment to create jobs. I can’t wait to work with him to do more of what he has accomplished here.
You know, originally I had intended to come to Cleveland under very different circumstances. We are headed into a general election that could be the most consequential of our lifetimes. But today is not a day for politics.
On Sunday, Americans woke up to a nightmare that’s become mind-numbingly familiar – another act of terrorism in a place no one expected.
A mad man filled with hate and with guns in his hands and just a horrible sense of vengeance and vindictiveness in his heart apparently consumed by rage against LGBT Americans and by extension the openness and diversity that defines our American way of life.
We will learn more about the killer in the days to come. We know that he pledged allegiance to ISIS, that they are now taking credit, and that part of their strategy is to radicalize individuals and encourage attacks against the United States even if they are not coordinated with ISIS leadership.
But there’s a lot we still don’t know including what other mix of motives drove him to kill.
The more we learn about what happened, the better we will be able to protect our people going forward.
In the days ahead, we will also learn more about the many lives he viciously cut short – many of them young people just starting out in their lives.
They were travel agents and pharmacy techs, college students and amusement park workers, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, and they had one thing in common – they all had a lot more to give.
We should take a moment today amid our busy lives to think about them, to pray for everyone who was killed, for the wounded, those who are fighting to regain their lives and future, for our first responders who walked into danger one more time.

As a mother, I can’t imagine what those families are going through. But let’s also remember the other scenes we saw on Sunday.
We saw the faces of some of those first responders who rushed into danger and tried to save as many people as they could.
We saw survivors like Chris Hansen risked their lives to help others.
People gathering outside hospitals to comfort anxious family members, waiting for news of their loved ones, and waiting too to learn more about what they could do to make sure this never happened again.
Religious leaders condemning hate and appealing for peace. People lining up to donate blood. Americans refusing to be intimidated or divided.
Yesterday I called Mayor Dyer of Orlando and offered my support and my appreciation for the support that he and the other leaders have shown. This is a moment when all Americans need to stand together.
No matter how many times we endure attacks like this, the horror never fades. The murder of innocent people breaks our hearts, tears at our sense of security, and makes us furious.
Now, we have to steel our resolve to respond. And that’s what I want to talk to you about – how we respond.
The Orlando terrorist may be dead but the virus that poisoned his mind remains very much alive, and we must attack it with clear eyes, steady hands, unwavering determination, and pride in our country and our values.
I have no doubt we can meet this challenge if we meet it together.
Whatever we learn about this killer, his motives in the days ahead. We know already the barbarity we face from radical jihadists is profound.
In the Middle East, ISIS is attempting a genocide of religious and ethnic minorities. They’re slaughtering Muslims who refuse to accept their medieval ways. They’re beheading civilians, including executing LGBT people. They are murdering Americans and Europeans, enslaving, torturing, and raping women and girls.
In speeches like this one – after Paris, Brussels, and San Bernardino – I have laid out a plan to defeat ISIS and the other radical jihadist groups in the region and beyond.
The attack in Orlando makes it even more clear we cannot contain this threat; we must defeat it.
And the good news is that the coalition efforts in Syria and Iraq has made recent gains in the last months. So we should keep the pressure on ramping up the air campaign, accelerating support for our friends fighting to take and hold ground, and pushing our partners in the region to do even more.
We also need continued American leadership to help resolve the political conflicts that fuel ISIS recruitment efforts.
But as ISIS loses actual ground in Iraq and Syria, it will seek to stage more attacks and gain stronger footholds wherever it can from Afghanistan to Libya to Europe.
The threat is metastasizing. We saw this in Paris and we saw it in Brussels.
We face a twisted ideology and poisoned psychology that inspires the so-called lone wolves – radicalized individuals who may or may not have contact and direction from any formal organization.
So yes, efforts to defeat ISIS on the battlefield must succeed but it will take more than that.

We have to be just as adaptable and versatile as our enemies. As president, I will make identifying and stopping lone wolves a top priority.
I will put a team together from across our government – the entire government – as well as from the private sector and communities to get on top of this urgent challenge.
And I will make sure our law enforcement and intelligence professionals have all the resources they need to get the job done.
As we do this, there are three areas that demand attention.
First, we and our allies must work hand in hand to dismantle the networks that move money and propaganda and arms and fighters around the world.
We have to stem the flow of jihadists from Europe and American to Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan and then back again. The only way to do this is by working closely with our partners, strengthening our alliances, not weakening them or walking away from them.
Second, here at home, we must harden our own defense. We have to do more to support our first responders, law enforcement, and intelligence officers who do incredible work everyday at great personal risk to keep our country safe.
I have seen first hand how hard their job is and how well they do it.
In Orlando, at least one police officer was shot in the head. Thankfully, his life was saved by a kevlar helmet – something folks at Team Wendy know a lot about.
It’s often been said that our law enforcement, our intelligence agencies, our first responders have to be right 100% of the time. The terrorists only have to be right once. What a heavy responsibility.
These men and women deserve both our respect and gratitude and they deserve the right tools and resources and training.
Too often state and local officials can’t get access to intelligence from the federal government that would help them do their jobs. We need to change that.
We also need to work with local law enforcement and business owners on ways to protect vulnerable so-called soft targets like nightclubs and shopping malls and hotels and movie theaters and schools and houses of worship.
Now, I know a lot of Americans are asking how it was possible that someone already on the FBI’s radar could have still been able to commit an attack like the one in Orlando and what more we can do to stop this kind of thing from happening again.
Well, we have to see what the investigation uncovers. If they are things that can and should be done to improve our ability to prevent, we must do them. We already know we need more resources for this fight.
The professionals who keep us safe would be the first to say we need better intelligence to discover and disrupt terrorist plots before they can be carried out.
That’s why I’ve proposed an intelligence surge to bolster our capabilities across the board with appropriate safeguards here at home.
Even as we make sure our security officials get the tools they need to prevent attacks, it’s essential we stop terrorists from getting the tools they need to carry out the attacks. And that is especially true when it comes to assault weapons like those used in Orlando and San Bernardino.

Now, I believe weapons of war have no place on our streets, and we may have our disagreements about gun safety regulations but we should all be able to agree on a few essential things.
If the FBI is watching you for suspected terrorist links, you shouldn’t be able to just go buy a gun with no questions asked.
And you shouldn’t be able to exploit loopholes and evade criminal background checks by buying online or at a gun show.
And yes, if you’re too dangerous to get on a plane, you’re too dangerous to buy a gun in America.
Now, I know some will say that assault weapons and background checks are totally separate issues having nothing to do with terrorism.
Well, in Orlando and San Bernardino, terrorists used assault weapons – the AR-15 – and they used it to kill Americans. That was the same assault weapons used to kill those little children in Sandy Hook.
We have to make it harder for people who should not have those weapons of war. And that may not stop every shooting or every terrorist attack but it will stop some and it will save lives and it will protect our first responders.
And I want you to know I’m not going to stop fighting for these kinds of provisions.
Now, the third area that demand attention is preventing radicalization and countering efforts by ISIS and other international terrorist networks to recruit in the United States and Europe.
For starters it is long past time for the Saudis, the Qataris, the Kuwaitis and others to stop their citizens from funding extremist organizations. And they should stop supporting radical schools and mosques around the world that have set too many young people on a path toward extremism.
We also have to use all of our capabilities to counter jihadist propaganda online.
This is something I spent a lot of time on at the State Department. As president I will work with our great tech companies from Silicon Valley and Boston to step up our game.
We have do a better job intercepting ISIS’s communications, tracking and analyzing social media posts, and mapping jihadist networks as well as promoting credible voices who can provide alternatives to radicalization.
And there is more to do offline as well. Since 9/11 law enforcement agencies have worked hard to build relationships with Muslim American communities. Millions of peace-loving Muslims live, work, and raise their families across America. And they are the most likely to recognize the insidious effects of radicalization before it’s too late and the best positioned to help us block it.

So we should be intensifying contacts in those communities, not scapegoating or isolating them.
Last year, I visited a pilot program in Minneapolis that helps parents, teachers, imams, mental health professionals and others recognize signs of radicalization in young people and work with law enforcement to intervene before it’s too late.
I’ve also met with local leaders pursuing innovative approaches in Los Angeles and other places, and we need more efforts like that in more cities across America.
And as the director of the FBI has pointed out, we should avoid eroding trust in that community, which will only make law enforcement’s job more difficult.
Inflammatory, anti-Muslim rhetoric and threatening to ban the families and friends of Muslim-Americans as well as millions of Muslim business people and tourists from entering our country hurts the vast majority of Muslims who love freedom and hate terror.
So does saying that we have to start special surveillance on our fellow Americans because of their religion.
It’s no coincidence that hate crimes against American Muslims and mosques have tripled after Paris and San Bernardino. That’s wrong and it’s also dangerous. It plays right into the terrorists’ hands.
Still, as I have said before, none of us can close our eyes to the fact that we do face enemies who use their distorted version of Islam to justify slaughtering innocent people. They’d take us back to the stone age if they could just as they have in parts of Iraq and Syria.
The terrorist in Orlando targeted LGBT Americans out of hatred and bigotry. And an attack on any American is an attack on all Americans.
And I want to say this to all the LGBT people grieving today in Florida and across our country, you have millions of allies who will always have your back and I am one of them.
From Stonewall to Laramie and now Orlando, we’ve seen too many struggles of how the struggle to live freely, openly and without fear has been met by violence.
We have to stand together, be proud together. There’s no better rebuke to the terrorists and all those who hate. Our open, diverse society is an asset in the struggle against terrorism, not a liability. It makes us stronger and more resistant to radicalization.
And this raises a larger point about the future of our country. America is strongest when we all believe that we have a stake in our country and our future. This vision has sustained us from the beginning – the belief that yes we are all created equal and the journey we have made to turn that into reality over the course of our history, that we are not a land of winners and losers, that we should all have the opportunity to live up to our God-given potential, and we have a responsibility to help others do so as well.

You see, as I look at American history, I see that this has always been a country of we not me.
We stand together because we are stronger together. E pluribus unum. Out of many one has seen us through the darkest chapters of our history ever since 13 squabbling colonies put aside their differences and united because they realized they were going to rise together or fall separately.
Generation after generation has fought and marched and organized to widen the circle of dignity and opportunity – ending slavery, securing and expanding the right to vote, throwing open the doors of education, building the greatest middle class the world has ever seen.
And we are stronger when more people can participate in our democracy.
And we are stronger when everyone can share in the rewards of our economy and contribute to our communities when we bridge our divides and lift each other up instead of tear each other down.
Now, we have overcome a lot together and we will overcome the threats of terror and radicalization and all of our challenges.
Here in Ohio and across America, I’ve listened to people talk about the problems that keep you up at night. The bonds that hold us together as communities, as one national community are strained by an economy with too much inequality and too little upward mobility, by social and political divisions that have diminished our trust in each other and our confidence in our shared future.
Well, I have heard that and I want you to know as your president, I will work everyday to break down the barriers holding you back and keeping us apart.
We’re going to get an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top.
We’re going to forge a new sense of connection and shared responsibility to each other and our nation.
And finally, let me remind us all I remember – I remember how it felt in the day after 9/11 and I bet many of you do as well. Americans from all walks of life rallied together with a sense of common purpose on Sept. 12th and in the days and weeks and months that followed. We had each other’s backs.
I was a senator from New York. There was a Republican president, a Republican governor, and a Republican mayor. We did not attack each other. We worked with each other to protect our country and to rebuild our city.
President Bush went to a Muslim community center just six days after the attacks to send a message of unity and solidarity. “To anyone who wanted to take out their anger on our Muslim neighbors and fellow citizens,” he said, “that should not and that will not stand in America.”
It is time to get back to the spirit of those days – the spirit of 9/12. Let’s make sure we keep looking to the best of our country, to the best within each of us, Democratic and Republican presidents have risen to the occasion in the face of tragedy. That is what we are called to do, my friends, and I am so confident and optimistic that is exactly what we will do.
Thank you all so much!

Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you all! Thank you!
It is wonderful to be back here in Columbus…
It was an exciting weekend. Chelsea and Marc had a little boy, and we are just truly over the moon. I have to confess, you know I’ve talked so much about being a grandmother. Now I’m sure I’m going to be talking doubly about being a grandmother. New stories to tell.
It’s always great to be back in Ohio, and I want to talk about a challenge that Ohio families know well – growing our economy and making it work for everyone, not just those at the top.
For more than a year now, I have been listening to Americans across our country. You’ve told me how the recession hit your communities, how jobs dried up, home values sank, and savings vanished.
And I have seen how hard you’ve worked to get back on your feet.
If we’ve learned anything about the economy over the past 20 years, it’s that a president’s economic decisions have real consequences for families.
President Obama was handed the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Thanks to his leadership and the hard work and the resilience of the American people, we have seen more than 14 million private sector jobs created over the last 6.5 years.
And here in Ohio, the auto industry has made a strong comeback.

And how appropriate as we are here in the area where students learn about autos, learn about how they’re made and how they work.
So, we know people are working harder and longer just to keep their heads above water and to deal with the costs – the everyday costs – the costs of basics like childcare and prescription drugs that are too high.
College is getting more expensive everyday, and wags are still too low and inequality is too great.
Good jobs in many parts of our country are still too hard to come by.
Now, these problems are serious but I know we can overcome them together.
I really believe in this country because I believe in the American people.
America’s economy isn’t yet where we want it to be but we are stronger and better positioned than anyone in the world to build the future that you and your children deserve.
And I have spent my adult life working to even the odds for people who’ve had the odds stacked against them.
I helped break down barriers to education for poor and disabled children as a young lawyer, fought for health insurance for all and have been committed to that since my days as First Lady.
I worked to bring opportunity back to upstate New York and a lot of depressed communities there as senator and went to bat for American workers and businesses as your Secretary of State.
And everything I’ve learned in everything I’ve done has convinced me we are stronger when we grow together.
And I’ve said throughout this campaign that my mission as president will be to help create more good-paying jobs so we can get incomes rising for hardworking families across America.
It’s a pretty simple formula. Higher wages lead to more demand which leads to more jobs with higher wages.
And I’ve laid out a detailed agenda to jump start this virtuous cycle. And you can go to my website HillaryClinton.com and read all about it.
And I do admit it is a little wonky. But I have this old fashioned idea that if you’re running for president, you should say what you want to do, how you’re going to pay for it, and how you’ll get it done.
I actually sweat the specifics because they matter.
Whether one more kid gets health care may just be a detail in Washington but it’s all that matters to that family worrying about their child.
Tomorrow in North Carolina, I will set out ambitious new goals that will help us build a stronger, fairer economy.
We’ll work with both parties to make transformational investments in good-paying jobs, in infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean energy, and small business.
And we’ll tackle the twin problems of college affordability and student debt.
We’ll pursue innovative ideas like corporate profit-sharing because everyone who works hard should be able to share in the rewards of their hard work.
And to pay for these investments, we will make sure Wall Street corporations and the super rich contribute their fair share.
And through it all, we’re going to make sure our policies match how families actually live, learn, and work in the 21st century.
So that’s what I’ll be talking about tomorrow in North Carolina and throughout this campaign.
Today, I want to talk about what Donald Trump is promising to do to the economy.

After more than a year, it’s important that he held accountable for what he says he’ll do as president.
We need to clear the way for a real conversation about how to improve the lives of working people.
A few weeks ago, I said his foreign policy proposals and reckless statements represent a danger to our national security.
But you might think that because he has spent his life as a businessman he’d be better prepared to handle the economy.
Well, it turns out he’s dangerous there too.
Just like he shouldn’t have his finger on the button, he shouldn’t have his hands on our economy.
Now, I don’t say that because of typical political disagreements. Liberals and conservatives say Trump’s ideas would be disastrous.
The Chamber of Commerce and labor unions, Mitt Romney and Elizabeth Warren, economists on the right and the left and the center all agree Trump would throw us back into recession.
One of John McCain’s former economic advisers actually calculated what would happen to our country if Trump gets his way. He described the results of a Trump recession. We would lose 3.5 million jobs, incomes would stagnate, debt would explode, and stock prices would plummet.
And you know who’d be hit the hardest? The people who had the hardest time getting back on their feet after the 2008 crisis.
One of the leading firms that analyzes the top threats to the global economy called the Economist Intelligence Unit comes out with a new list of threats every month. It includes things like terrorism and the disintegration of Europe. And this month, number three on the list is Donald Trump becoming president of the United States.
Just think about that.
Everyday, we see how reckless and careless Trump is. He’s proud of it. Well, that’s his choice – except when he’s asking to be our president. Then it’s our choice.
Donald Trump actually stood on a debate stage in November and said that wages are too high in this country. He should tell that to the mothers and fathers working two jobs to raise their kids.
He said – and I quote – “Having a low minimum wage is not a bad thing for this country” at a time when millions working full-time are still living in poverty.
Back in 2006 before the financial crash, Trump said – and I quote – “I sorta hope that the housing market crashes” because he’d make money off of all the foreclosures.
Over the years he has said all kinds of things about women in the workforce.
He once called pregnant employees – and I quote – “an inconvenience”.
He said women will start making equal pay as soon as we do as good a job as men – as if we weren’t already.
Now these are the words not of someone who thinks highly of women who work or who cares about helping parents balance work and family but instead he clearly doesn’t know much about how we have grown the economy over the last 40 years, which is largely thanks to women getting into the workforce and adding to family incomes.

And he wants to end Obamacare but has no credible plan to replace it or to help keep costs down.
It really wouldn’t be good for our economy, would it, if 20 million people lost their health insurance and we were back to absolutely skyrocketing costs for everything. It would be devastating to families; it would also be bad for the economy.
Here’s exactly what he’s promising to do as president and why I believe it’s wrong for America.
First, there’s his plan for Wall Street. After the 2008 crisis, President Obama fought to enact the toughest, most comprehensive set of Wall Street reforms since the Great Depression.
They’re designed to protect consumers and ensure that Wall Street can never again take the kinds of risks that crashed our economy the last time.
So what would Trump do? He said wants to wipe out the tough rules we put on big banks. He said they created “a very bad situation”.
Well, he’s got it backwards. The “very bad situation” was millions of families seeing their homes and savings disappear.
He also wants to repeal the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – the new consumer watchdog that Sen. Warren helped create to protect families from unfair and deceptive business practices.
That new agency has already secured billions of dollars in returns for people who have been ripped off.
Donald Trump wants to get rid of it.
Trump would take us back to where we were before the crisis. He’d rig the economy for Wall Street again.
Well, that will not happen on my watch. I can guarantee you.
I would veto any effort to weaken those reforms. I would defend and strengthen them both for the big banks and the shadow banking system.
And I will vigorously enforce the law because we can’t ever let Wall Street wreck Main Street again.
Now second, there’s Donald Trump’s approach to our national debt.
Now, I have a plan to pay for all my proposals because I take America’s long-term financial health seriously.
Donald Trump has a different approach.
He calls himself the “king of debt” and his tax plan sure lives up to that name.
According to the independent Tax Policy Center, it would increase the national debt by more than $30 trillion over 20 years. That’s trillion with a T.
It’s much, much more than any nominee of either party has ever proposed.
An economist described it with words like “not even in the universe of the realistic”.
And how would he pay for all this debt? Well, he said it – and I quote – “I would borrow knowing that if the economy crashed, you could make a deal.”
It’s like, he said, “You know you make a deal before you go into a poker game.”
Well, actually it’s not like that at all. The full faith and credit of the United States is not something we just gamble away. That could cause an economic catastrophe.
And it would break 225 years of iron clad trust that the American economy has with Americans and with the rest of the world.
Alexander Hamilton would be rolling in his grave.
You see, we pay our debts. That’s why investors come here even when everything else in the world goes wrong.
You don’t have to take it from me. Ronald Reagan said it.
He said, “We have a well-earned reputation for reliability and credibility – two things that set us apart from much of the world.”
Now, maybe Donald feels differently because he made a fortune filing bankruptcies and stiffing his creditors.
I’ll get to his business practices in a minute.
But the United States of America doesn’t do business Trump’s way, and it matters – it matters – when a presidential candidate talks like this.

Because the world hangs on every word our president says. The markets rise and fall on those statements. Even suggesting that the United States would default would cause a global panic.
Trump also says “We can just print more money to pay our debt down.”
Well, we know what happened to countries that tried that in the past like Germany in the ‘20s or Zimbabwe in the ‘90s. It drove inflation through the roof and crippled their economies.
The American dollar is the safest currency on the planet. Why would he want to mess with that?
And so, we have to stand up for our history.
Democrats and Republicans have always understood this. We can’t let these loose careless remarks get any credence in our electorate or around the world.
And finally, the Trump campaign said that if worst came to worst, we can just sell off America’s assets. Really?
Even if we sold all of our aircraft carriers and the Statue of Liberty, even if we let some billionaire turn Yosemite into a private country club, we still wouldn’t even get close.
That’s how much debt he’d run up.
Maybe this is what he means when he says “I love playing with debt”.
Someone should tell him our nation’s economy isn’t a game. The full faith and credit of the United States is sacred. We know what sound fiscal policy looks like and it sure isn’t running up massive debts to pay for giveaways to the rich.
And it is not painful austerity that hurts working families and undercuts our long-term progress. It’s being strong, stable, and making smart investments in our future.
So let’s set the right priorities and pay for them so we can hand our children a healthier economy and a better future.
Now, third, there’s Donald Trump’s tax plan.
You know, when I was working on this speech, I had the same experience I had when I was working on the speech I gave about foreign policy and national security.
I’d have my researchers and my speechwriters send me information and then I’d say, “Really?! He really said that?” Then they’d send me all the backgrounds or the video clip.
So, here goes.
He’d give millionaires a $3 trillion tax cut. Corporations would get $2 trillion more. That means he’s giving more away to the 120,000 richest American families than he would to help 120 million hardworking Americans.
Now, even in this era of rising inequality, this is like nothing we’ve ever seen.
Now you and I know that the wealthiest Americans and the biggest corporations don’t need trillions of dollars in tax cuts. They need to be paying their fair share.
Now, before releasing his plan, Trump said “Hedge fund guys are getting away with murder.” And he added, “They’ll pay more.”
Then his plan came out and it actually makes the current loophole even worse. It gives hedge fund managers a special tax rate that’s lower than what many middle class families pay.
And I did have to look twice because I didn’t believe it.
Under Donald Trump’s plan, these Wall Street millionaires will pay a lower tax rate than many working people.
And of course, Donald himself would get a huge tax cut from his own plan. But we don’t know exactly how much because he won’t release his tax returns.
Now, every major presidential candidate in the last four decades has shown the American people their taxes. In fact, Donald actually told Mitt Romney to do it. And he said that if he ever ran for president, he would release his returns.

My husband and I have released ours going back nearly 40 years. And now, Donald’s refusing to do so.
You have to ask yourself, “What’s he afraid of?”
Maybe that we’ll learn he hasn’t paid taxes on his huge income? We know that happened for at least a few years, he paid nothing or close to it.
Or maybe he isn’t as rich as he claims.
Or that he hasn’t given away as much to charity as he brags about.
Whatever the reason, Americans deserve to know before you cast your votes this November.
And when it comes to other people’s taxes, Donald Trump’s got it all wrong. We need to do better by the middle class, not by the rich, and that’s why my plan will help working families with the cost of college, health care, and child care – the things that really stretch a family’s budget. That’s where our focus should be.
Now, fourth. Donald Trump’s ideas about the economy and the world will cause millions of Americans to lose their jobs.
The Republican primary featured the Trump immigration plan – round up and deport more than 11 million people, almost all of whom are employed or are children going to school, then build a wall across our border and force Mexico to pay for it.
Now this policy is not only wrongheaded and unachievable, it is really bad economics.
Kicking 11 million immigrants would cost hundreds of billions of dollars, and it would shrink our economy significantly.
Some economists argue that just this policy alone would send us into a Trump recession.
So instead of causing large-scale misery and shrinking our economy, we should pass sensible immigration reform with a path to citizenship because the youth and diversity of our workforce is one of our greatest assets.
Most of the rest of the world that we compete with is aging. So by staying younger and fresher with talents that can be put to work, we’re actually going to be in a stronger economic position in the next decades. We’ve always been a country where people born elsewhere could work hard, start businesses, and contribute to our growth. That makes us stronger and more prosperous.
And then there’s trade.
I believe that we can compete and win in the global economy. To do that, we should re-negotiate trade deals that aren’t working for Americans and reject any agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership that don’t meet my high bar for raising wages or creating good-paying jobs.
And I will be tough on trade enforcement too.
Because when China dumps cheap steel in our markets or unfairly manipulates currency, we need to respond forcefully.
At the same time, we need to invest more here at home.
I have a make it in America plan to increase 21st century manufacturing and energy jobs in America and we’re going to build on the great ideas of Sen. Sherrod Brown and invest $10 billion in manufacturing communities.
I agree with Sherrod that with the right investments and a leveled playing field, American workers will out-innovate anyone in the world…

The last time we opted for Trump-style isolationism it made the Great Depression longer and more painful.
And interestingly, Trump’s own products are made in a lot of countries that aren’t named America.
Trump ties are made in China. Trump suits in Mexico. Trump furniture in Turkey. Trump picture frames in India. Trump bar wear in Slovenia. And I could go on and on but you get the idea.
And I’d love for him to explain how all that fits with his talk about America first. I honestly believe that the difference between us is not just about policy. We have fundamentally different views of whether America is strong or weak.
You see, I believe in the ingenuity and productivity of American workers. I know we can sell our products to the 95% of global consumers who live outside of our country.
On the other hand, Donald Trump never misses a chance to say that Americans – he’s talking about us – to say that Americans are losers and the rest of the world is laughing at us.
Just the other day, he told a crowd that America is “not going to survive”.
I do not know what he’s talking about. I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State and what I saw was envy – envy – for our strength, our values, our diversity, the future we are making together.
I just can’t imagine how someone running for president of the United States could ever think that that is true.
I do understand how frustrated, fearful and even angry many people are, especially if you’re under-employed or making a lot less than you used to or worried that your kids or your grandkids won’t have the kind of good solid middle class life that you did.
And we haven’t done enough to invest in our community and in our people to make sure there are enough good jobs with rising incomes to create that good future for all of us.
The answer is to do that to bring people along on America’s ride to prosperity that we all can share, not try to turn the clock back, pretend we can’t compete, and decrease the jobs of the future.
But those are his plans for the economy.
Now, you may have noticed, there is a lot missing.
The king of debt has no real plan for making college debt payable back or making college debt free. This is a crisis that affects so many of our people.
He has no credible plan for rebuilding our infrastructure apart from the wall that he wants to build. Personally, I’d rather spend our money on rebuilding our schools, or modernizing our energy grid.
He has no ideas how to strengthen Medicare or expand Social Security. In fact, his tax plan would endanger both.
He has no real strategy for creating jobs, just a string of empty promises.
But then, maybe we shouldn’t expect better from someone whose most famous words are “You’re fired”.
He has no clean energy plan even though that’s where many of the jobs of the future will come from, and it is the key to a safer, healthier planet.
He just says that climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese.
Well, given this, it is a lot easier to say a problem doesn’t exist than it is to actually try to solve it.
And of course, he has no plan for helping urban and rural communities facing entrenched poverty and neglect.
Every single one of these issues matter. They affect whether young people can go to college, whether single moms can support their kids, or the grandparents can have a dignified retirement. What could be more important?

In the heat of a campaign in a culture that rewards brevity and clever phrases on social media, it is tempting to give simple answers to complex problems.
Believe me, I have been tempted. But I’m not going to do that because it really matters that you know what I believe we can and should do so you can hold me accountable in the election and then in the White House.
Because whether we increase employment in distressed rural communities, relieve the burden of college debt, or get health care to people who still don’t have it, that all matters.
And to me, that’s the purpose of politics – to empower people in a democracy to have better lives, to make better choices, to seize opportunities to give themselves and their families that pathway to the future.
And one more thing. I think Donald Trump has said he’s qualified to be president because of his business record.
A few days ago, he said – and I quote – “I’m going to do for the country what I did for my business.”
So let’s take a look at what he did for his business. He’s written a lot of books about business. They all seem to end at Chapter 11.
Go figure.
And over the years, he intentionally ran up huge amounts of debts on his companies and then he defaulted. He bankrupted his companies not once, not twice, but four times. Hundreds of people lost their jobs. Shareholders were wiped out. Contractors – many of them small businesses – took heavy losses. Many went bust.
But Donald Trump, he came out fine.
Here’s what he said about one of those bankruptcies. “I figured it was the bank’s problem, not mine. What the hell did I care?”
He also says, “I play with bankruptcy.”
Everything seems to be a game with him. Well, it isn’t for a lot of us, is it?
Just look at what he did in Atlantic City. He put his name on buildings – his favorite thing to do. He convinced other people that his properties were a great investment so they would go in with him. But he arranged it so he got paid no matter how his companies performed.
So when his casino and hotel went bankrupt because of how badly he mismanaged them, he still walked away with millions while everybody else paid the price.
Well, today, his properties are sold, shuttered, or falling apart, and so are a lot of people’s lives.
Here’s what he says about that. “Atlantic City was a very good cash cow for me for a long time.”
Remember that the next time you see him on TV about how we’ll all win big if only we elect him president.
Now, he’s trying to say he’s changed. Somebody’s told him he needs to say that – that he’s not in it for himself anymore, he’s really now in it for America. But he’s doing the exact same thing that he’s been doing for years.
This is his one move. He makes over-the-top promises that if people stick with him, trust him, listen to him, put their faith in him, he’ll deliver for them. He’ll make them wildly successful and then everything falls apart and people get hurt.
Those promises you’re hearing from him at his campaign rallies, they are the same promises he made to his customers at Trump University. And now, they’re suing him for fraud.
The same people he’s trying to get to vote for him are people he’s been exploiting for years. Because it’s not just other investors, other rich people he took advantage of; it was working people.
He’s been involved in more than 3,500 lawsuits in the last 30 years, and a large numbers were filed by ordinary Americans and small businesses that did work for Trump and never got paid – painters, waiters, plumbers – people who needed the money and didn’t get it, not because he couldn’t pay them but because he could stiff them.

Sometimes he offered them 30 cents on the dollar for projects they had already completed. Hundreds of liens have been filed against him by contractors going back decades and they all tell a similar story – “I worked for him. I did my job. He wouldn’t pay me what he owed me.”
My late father was a small businessman. If his customers had done what Trump did, my dad would never have made it. So I take this personally. He says he’s a businessman and this is what businessmen do.
Well, CNN pointed out that no major company has filed Chapter 11 more often in the last 30 years than Trump’s casinos.
So, no, this is not normal behavior. There are great businesspeople here in Ohio, in America, brilliant hard working men and women who care about their workers and the people they do business with and they want to build something that lasts. They’re decent. They’re honest. They’re patriots.
Some might even make fine presidents. And they would never dream of acting the way Donald Trump does.
In America, we don’t begrudge people being successful. But we know they shouldn’t do it by destroying other people’s dreams.
And so, if I were not running against him for president, I would be saying exactly the same thing.
We cannot put a person like this with all his empty promises in a position of power over our lives.
We can’t let him bankrupt America like we are one of his failed casinos.
We can’t let him roll the dice with our children’s futures.
Leading an economy as large and complex as ours, creating growth that is strong, fair, and lasting is about as hard a job as there is.
It takes patience and clear thinking, a willingness to work across party lines, to level with the American people, and it takes really caring about whether working families will be better off because of what we do.
Think of FDR leading us out of the Great Depression. Imagine all the work that required, all the learning and patience, all the hard calls, day after day for years. But he steered us right and we emerged stronger and better positioned to build the greatest middle class in history and lead the world toward peace and prosperity.
Or think of President Obama in 2009. Newly elected, confronting the greatest economic crisis of our lifetimes. He had nothing to do with creating it. It landed in his lap, and he had to be focused and he had to return to basics to get us moving again.
He fought for the Recovery Act to get people working. He passed Wall Street reforms and relief for homeowners and he saved the auto industry.
And today, we are on a surer footing ready to seize tomorrow.
Now just imagine if you can, Donald Trump sitting in the Oval Office the next time America faces a crisis. Imagine him being in charge when your jobs or savings are at stake. Is this who you want to lead us in an emergency? Someone thin-skinned and quick to anger? Who’d likely be on Twitter attacking reporters or bringing the whole regulatory system down on his critics when he should be focused on fixing what’s wrong? Would he even know what to do?
Now, I have a lot of faith that the American people will make the right decision.
Making Donald Trump our president would undo much of the progress we’ve made and put our economy at risk.
And beyond that, this election will say something about who we are as a people.
Donald Trump believes in the worst of us. He thinks we’re fearful, not confident, that we favor division not unity, walls not bridges, and yesterday not tomorrow. He thinks the only way forward is to go back to a past prosperity that left a lot of people out.
In fact the only way forward is forward toward a 21st century version of the American dream with a modern economy and a shared prosperity where no one’s left out or left behind.
I believe in an America always moving toward the future.
If you believe as I do in an America that values hard work, treats people with dignity, offers everyone the chance to live their dreams, cares for those in need, well, the formula for America’s success has always been that we’re stronger together and we need to remember that now and recommit ourselves to making that ideal real in our time. That’s how we will build our economy to make sure it does work for everyone and to make our families and our communities stronger.
We’ll make sure that in our country no one gets left behind.
So let’s carry that message across America and let’s fight hard. Let’s win in November and then let’s get to work, my friends. Let’s make America what we know it can be.
Thank you all very much!

Thank you Cincinnati!
I especially want to thank all the people outside who couldn’t get in. Thank you for coming today!
I am so delighted to be here with my friend and a great leader, Sen. Elizabeth Warren!
Now, you just saw why she is considered so terrific, so formidable, because she tells it like it is.
I am very grateful for that introduction, but more importantly, I want to thank her for fighting every single day for families like hers, families like yours, and millions of hardworking Americans who deserve to have more folks on their side!
You know, Elizabeth and I came of age around the same time. And when we were coming up – as you heard her talking about her parents, her brothers – we believed in the American dream. It wasn’t always going to be easy.
My dad was a small businessman. It was hard work. He got up every single day and went off to work, worked hard and lots of times my mother and brothers and I would be there to help.
He printed drapery fabrics in a long warehouse with a long table. It was dark and not very pleasant, but it was decent, honest work.
And he believed, and he taught me that’s what you do in America – that’s the basic bargain. You work hard, you do your part, you will get ahead and stay ahead.
And we need to make sure that basic bargain is alive and well in 2016!
Elizabeth is leading the fight to liberate millions of Americans from the burden of student debt and to make sure Washington never again profits off of our students.
She and I agree the federal government should not be making money off of sending our sending our young people to college to get an education.
And no one works harder to make sure Wall Street never – never – wrecks Main Street again.
She’s come up with a lot of great ideas but here is one that has already made a big difference. It’s called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. It’s been around a few years under the leadership of a great leader from Ohio, Richard Cordray, who is leading the charge.
Think about this. It’s only been around a few years but it has already returned over $10.8 billion to 25 million Americans who have been hurt by illegal financial practices. Now that is what standing up and fighting to right economic wrongs looks like.

And I must say, I do just love to see how she gets under Donald Trump’s thin skin!
As Elizabeth made clear, Donald Trump proves everyday he’s not in it for the American people; he’s in it only for himself.
And Elizabeth reminds us of that every chance she gets because it is really important that voters here in Ohio and across America understand this.
She exposes him for what he is – temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified to be president of the United States.
Now, some of the best TV since Elizabeth came to the Senate is actually on C-SPAN. So whenever you see her pressing a bank executive or a regulator for answers, refusing to let them off the hook, remember she is speaking for every single American who is frustrated and fed up.
She is speaking for all of us and we thank her for that.
I am thrilled that Elizabeth could be here with me in this glorious beautiful building that has been rehabbed and put to new use as a museum because we want to make the point together. That we must have an economy that works for everyone again, not just those at the top. Not just the rich or the well-connected – everybody.
Now one might ask, “Well, yes, that is what we believe. It sounds simple doesn’t it?” Honestly I think it is; it shouldn’t be complicated.
But there are too many politicians and corporations that don’t agree. They don’t even seem to get it.
But you do, and we do.
And for the past, now more than a year, I have been traveling across our country meeting people, who have told me their wages haven’t budged even though they see executives who give themselves big bonuses.
And you ask yourself, “Well, wait a minute, why do the richest Americans and the biggest corporations get away with manipulating the tax code so they pay lower rates than you do?”
That’s a good question. It doesn’t make any sense. It doesn’t make moral sense, economic sense, historic sense.
And you know what else doesn’t make sense? When leaders in Congress give more tax breaks to hedge fund millionaires instead of making investments in manufacturing, clean energy, and education that will actually create more good jobs?!
It doesn’t make sense when corporations stash their profits overseas or send them to influential shareholders instead of making long term investments in raising wages, training, and research.

Or when governors or legislatures use every trick in the book to weaken unions, and make it harder for Americans to organize themselves for better wages and benefits. You know what I’m talking about.
Well, you’ve heard of right to work laws. Well, they’re wrong for workers and they’re wrong for America. None of this is right, my friends.
But this election is a chance for us to make it right for the future, for our kids and our grandkids!
Let’s make it right. Let’s make it right for hardworking Americans like Stan Hall [sp]  in Cleveland, who owns a small trucking company.
It’s a nonstop struggle for him to compete against the bigger guys. But if we keep our economy growing and make sure small businesses like Stan’s get the right support, we can give more people a chance to succeed under that American basic bargain.
Let’s make it right for young people like Erica Roytblat [sp] in Westlake. She dreamed her whole life of going to Ohio University in Athens. But the housing crash in 2008 wiped out her parent’s savings and their small business…To get her college degree at a public university, Erica wound up $100,000 in debt.
We cannot let this student debt crisis continue. We’ve got to give hard working students and families relief.
You know what Erica is doing now? She is volunteering for our campaign and working to elect Democrats across Ohio!
Stan’s volunteering with us too, because he – like so many people across Ohio and across the country – know that we are fighting for a better future.
I got into this race because I wanted to even the odds for the people that have the odds stacked against them.
And this is not a time for half-measures.
To build an economy that works for everyone not just at the top, we’ve got to go big and we’ve got to go bold.
So we need to take that frustration, the fear, the anxiety and, yes, the anger and after we have vented it, we need to work together to achieve the kind of changes that will give everybody in this country a better shot.
So let’s set five ambitious goals for our economy.
Let’s break through the dysfunction in Washington and make the biggest investment in new good paying jobs since World War II.
Let’s do what we need to do to invest in infrastructure like President Eisenhower did with the interstate highway system. That’s when Republicans used to believe in building America and putting Americans to work. That’s what we’re going to do again.
Let’s set the goal of making college debt free for everyone like Erica.
And let’s provide debt relief as soon as we can, as soon as we start to work, Elizabeth. We’ll take the day off for the inauguration and then the Senate, the Congress, the White House, we’re going to get to work to give students and their families relief from this debt.

Now we’ve got more work to do so let’s set the goal of rewriting the rules so more companies share profits with their employees, not just their executives, instead of shipping profits and jobs overseas.
We’ve got the greatest country and the greatest economy in the world. Let’s start acting like it. And let’s make it clear that the companies have to be a part of that greatness.
Let’s set the goal of making sure that Wall Street and the wealthy pay their fare share of taxes.
Now, there are a couple ways of doing this. I’ve been proposing a number of them.
Something called the Buffett rule after Warren Buffett. No millionaire should pay a lower tax rate than somebody working for him, like his secretary.
The people who have profited the most, even since the Great Recession, are people who now need to give back. This country has given so much to all of us and everybody should share the burden.
So I made a pledge: I will not raise taxes on the middle class, but we are going to raise taxes on corporations and the wealthy.
And don’t you think it’s about time that we put American families first?
We’re not living in the 50’s or 60’s anymore. We’ve got to catch up with how Americans actually live and work in the 21st century.
I have met so many stressed out, young parents. I’ve met so many stressed out middle age and older folks, young parents because they’re trying to balance what should be the joy of their lives like our new grandson is for us and our granddaughter.
I remember I was talking to Elizabeth on the phone when she was visiting her family, her grandchildren, and we talked about all this important stuff and what we have to do. And then she said, “I have to go because I have to go buy my granddaughter some sparkly shoes.”
There is no greater joy. But to see young parents struggling so hard and to see older people taking care of their parents.
We’ve got work to do. We shouldn’t make it so difficult to do your job at home and do the job that puts food on the table and a roof over your head.
Let me just say a word about rewriting the rules.
You know, there are a lot of businesses thriving right here in Ohio, who see their employees the right way. They see them as assets to invest in, not costs to cut.
But unfortunately there are too many who take the opposite view and their behavior contributes to stagnant wages and lower economic growth.
That’s why as president I will work to reward companies that share profits with their employees on top of paying a good wage. Because if they can do it for their executives, they sure can do it for their workers.
And we will encourage companies to invest in worker training and to build high quality apprenticeship programs where you earn while you learn, and we will strengthen unions because they are the bedrock of a strong middle class in America.
Unions help bring back the auto industry in Ohio, and they will help bring back America from coast to coast.
So here’s our message – here’s our message to every corporate boardroom: Do the right thing by your employees and your country, and we will stand by you. But cheat your employees, exploit your customers, pollute our environment, and rip off taxpayers, and we will hold you accountable!

Because when companies take taxpayer dollars with one hand and give out pink slips with the other and ship hundreds of jobs overseas, we’re going to make them pay back those tax benefits, and we’re going to take that money and reinvest in workers and communities.
And we’re going to slap an exit tax on companies that move their headquarters overseas to avoid paying their fair share of taxes.
And we will defend American jobs and American workers by saying no to bad trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership and unfair trade practices like when China dumps cheap steel in our markets or uses weak rules of origin to undercut our carmakers.
I’m going to appoint a trade prosecutor who will report to the president so we’re going to end the abuse of our market, our workers, our people!
And you know what? We’re going to compete and win in the global economy by not letting anybody take advantage of us, not China, not Wall Street, not anyone.
And we’re going to defend and strengthen the tough rules to rein in Wall Street that were put in place after the crash.
When corporations pay fines for breaking the law, those fines should cut in to executives’ bonuses.
And if laws are violated, individuals, not just corporations, should be held accountable.
And I will veto – I will veto any effort to weaken protections for consumers.
And while we’re at it, we’re going to finally make Wall Street big corporations and the super wealthy, do more that’s not only fair in terms of paying taxes, which is right, because we can use that money to make these big bold investments. That will help us build a stronger economy for decades to come.
And you know what? That’s not only good for families and workers, that’s good for companies, for businesses.
We are a 70% consumption economy, my friends. That means the more money that you have in your pocket that you can spend, the better that is for the economy.
And the way things are right now, people are afraid. They’re holding back.
We’ve got to liberate the American consumer by protecting and helping the American worker.
And we’re going to make more things in America. We’re going to ensure we have the most competitive auto and auto parts industries in the world.
And when we invest in infrastructure, we’re not just going to be investing in roads and bridges and tunnels and ports and transit and water systems, we’re going to connect every home to high speed broadband so they can get into the global marketplace.
We’re going to fight climate change by making America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century!
I want to compliment your mayor, Mayor [John] Cranley is here, your State Rep, Alicia Reece. Cincinnati is already one of the biggest cities in the country to run 100% on clean energy! Congratulations!
And I’ll tell you what, mayor, I hope you don’t mind if I go around the country in saying, “If you can do it in Cincinnati, you can do it anywhere!” That’s what we need across America.
And while we’re at it, we’re going to raise the national minimum wage. $7.25 is a poverty wage. Workers deserve better. They deserve a living wage in a job with dignity.
Families deserve real support, like quality affordable child care, paid family leave, and equal pay for women!

Now I know when I talk about these things, Donald Trump says I’m playing the “woman card”.
Well, I tell you what, if fighting for families is playing the woman card, deal me in!
So now, in order to achieve these goals we have to go after and end the political dysfunction that’s holding our country and economy back, so let’s overturn Citizens United and get unaccountable money out of politics!
Let’s shut off the revolving door in Washington and make sure the foxes aren’t guarding the henhouse!
And let’s learn how to listen to each other and work together again.
I am determined to break through the gridlock to get things done for working families.
I know Democrats and Republicans can work together. I know it because I’ve done it.
I worked with Republicans and Democrats to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which today insures eight million kids.
I worked with Republicans and Democrats to bring jobs back to upstate New York and to help New York City rebuild after the 9/11 attacks.
I proudly served as Secretary of State, and I didn’t just represent Democrats, I represented all Americans. Because you know what? We’re all on the same team. It’s time we start acting like it. There’s no limit to what we can achieve if we do!
Now, I confess, I confess, it’s true. I can be a little wonky. But I have this old-fashioned idea, if you’re running for president, you should say what you want to do and how you will get it done.
So now that you’ve heard some of my plans for the economy, ask yourself, “What are Donald Trump’s plans?”
Well, best I can tell he has no credible strategy for creating jobs and maybe we shouldn’t expect better from someone who’s most famous words are, “You’re fired!”
Now, he rails against other countries, doesn’t he? He says he’s for our workers but Trump’s own products are made in a lot of countries that aren’t named America.
Trump’s suits were made in Mexico. He could’ve had them made in Brooklyn, Ohio. Trump furniture is made in Turkey instead of Cleveland. Trump bar wear is made in Slovenia instead of Toledo.
So how does that all fit in to his talk about America first?
But that’s just the start.
This is a man who plays coy with white supremacists and mocks people with disabilities.
Who talks about banning an entire religion from entering our country.
Who advocates getting rid of gun-free zones in schools.
Letting more countries have nuclear weapons.
Defaulting on our national debt.
Turning back the clock on marriage equality.
And just like Elizabeth, I could go on and on.
This is someone whose reaction to the horrific mass shooting in Orlando was to publicly congratulate himself.
And on Friday, when Britain voted to leave the European Union, he crowed from his golf course about how the disruption could end up creating higher profits for that gold course, even though within 24 hours Americans lost $100 billion from our 401Ks. He tried to turn a global economic challenge into an infomercial.

Imagine Donald Trump sitting in the Oval Office the next time America faces a crisis.
Imagine him being in charge when your jobs and savings are at stake.
Imagine him trying to figure out what to do in case of an emergency.
So it’s no wonder, is it, that risk analysts listed Donald Trump, a Donald Trump presidency as one of the top threats facing the global economy – ahead of terrorism.
Well, we are not going to let Donald Trump bankrupt America the way he bankrupted his casinos.
We need to write a new chapter in the American dream and it can’t be Chapter 11.
If you believe that Donald Trump’s wrong for America and that our best days are ahead of us, please join us in this campaign. We are stronger together.
We’re stronger when we grow together, when we lift each other up, when our economy is working for everyone, not just those at the top.
Let’s get to work Ohio! Let’s knock on doors and register voters! Let’s send Ted Strickland to the Senate with Sherrod Brown! Let’s send Alicia Reece back to Columbus! Let’s get more strong progressive leaders like Senator Warren in Washington and state houses.
This November, let’s take our country in the right direction with confidence and optimism. That’s what we can do together!
Thank you all and God bless you!

…Thank you. You know that’s something you don’t hear often enough, is it? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much.
Thank you for caring for all of our children no matter what they look like or where they come from or who they are.
And thank you for the insights that you have shared with me not only through this campaign but going back many years.
I want to say right from the outset that I’m with you.
And I can’t be too presumptuous, but if I am fortunate enough to be elected president, educators will have a partner in the White House and you’ll always have a seat at the table!
You see, I have this old fashioned idea that when we’re making decisions about education, we actually should listen to our educators.
I can tell you it meant so much to me that you had my back during the primary.
I would go to events across our country and I’d see your t-shirts, I’d see your signs, it just made me feel so terrific because we are in this together and we are stronger together and we’re going to win together in November!
Today I am asking for your support in the general election. I’m asking you to campaign with me, campaign for me, campaign for us, for our future.
Because like you, I get up everyday and ask, “What can we do that will make it better for America’s kids?”
It is a disgrace that in this country, we have children who are hungry, children who are living in the worst kinds of poverty, children who are not being given the same chance to fulfill their own potential that we want for all kids.
I am committed to making sure every child in this country receives a world-class education with good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in!
And you know what that means. That means supporting parents to be their child’s first teachers. Something you all have talked to me about a lot. Expanding access to quality, high-quality childcare and universal preschool for every child!
It also means repairing our crumbling schools, building new modern schools, investing in the training and support that our educators deserve to have. Because when we invest in education, we invest in our country’s future, and we invest in making a stronger economy that works for all of us, not just those at the top!

I know to make good on this commitment.
We need to focus on reaching new heights, not rehashing old arguments. It is time to stop focusing only on “failing schools.” Let’s focus on our great schools too! Let’s replicate their success everywhere across America.
And when schools get it right, whether they’re traditional public schools or public charter schools, let’s figure out what’s working – [boos] – no, let’s figure out what’s working and share it with schools across America. We can do that.
We’ve got no time for all these education wars where people on the outside try to foist for-profit schools on our kids. We will never stand for that. That is not acceptable!
So that’s what I’m asking all of us to do. Let’s sit at one table. Let’s sit and listen to each other and particularly, let’s listen to you – the teachers and the support professionals who are with our kids all day everyday.
And rather than starting from ideology, let’s start with what’s best for our kids.
Now some of you know, these issues are not new to me.
My first job out of law school was working for the Children’s Defense Fund.
I went door to door in New Bedford, Massachusetts. I was there to try to figure out why so many kids were not in school. We looked at census data, and we looked at school enrollment and there was a big gap. Well, what did we find? We found children with disabilities who desperately wanted to go to school but they couldn’t. Either because their local schools were unequipped and unwilling to give them the support they needed, or because their family couldn’t afford something so basic that would open up the world to them like a wheel chair or a hearing aid. So we collected information from across the country and we presented our findings.
Those were the days when you actually could present facts to the Congress and they would pay attention to you.
And we got the first legislation as you know so well in the entire world guaranteeing access to education for students with disabilities. I was so proud of that and I’m proud of all of you who have made it real in the lives of the kids like those that I met all those years ago in New Bedford.

Then years later, when my husband was governor of Arkansas, a national expert said the schools there were among the worst in the country. Well, we didn’t like hearing that, did we?
So Bill asked me to head up a committee charged with trying to make some differences. We held hearings in every county and came up with a plan.
And boy, did we fight hard to get more resources as well as higher standards, especially from really small schools.
And teachers finally got the raises they deserved – the highest increase of any state in the country at that time!
So I carry the lessons that I’ve learned from experiences like these with me every day.
If people will come together, work together, listen to each other, we can get the resources that our schools and our educators deserve and need to succeed.
My plan to strengthen public education comes down to TLC. Teaching, Learning, and Community. Let’s start with teaching!
I know what you see everyday. America is asking more of our educators than ever before.
You’re preparing kids for a competitive economy and staying on top of new technologies and theories and everybody looks to you to fill in the gaps that we as a country have neglected. Like giving low-income kids, English language learners, kids with disabilities the support that they need to thrive.
And we also ask you to right wrongs from poverty and homelessness to the legacy of racial inequities stretching back centuries.
We ask so much of you, and we don’t give you near enough in return.
As president, I’ll launch a national campaign to modernize and elevate the profession of teaching. I want all educators at every stage of your careers to know that they’ll be able to keep learning, improving, innovating. And that goes for administrators too.
And we need to be serious about raising your pay because teachers make nearly 15% less than other college graduates in America. No educator should have to take second and third jobs just to get by.
And the last thing a teacher needs when you’re just starting out is a mountain of student debt. So I want everyone to be able to refinance your student loans so you never have to pay more than you can afford, and for people who go into public service, and I include teaching because it is the first and primary public service, any remaining debt after you refinance will be forgiven after 10 years.

And we’ll go even further for who teach in hard to fill subjects, such as computer science or special education.
And we should also pay support staff better than what they are currently receiving. I think it is an outrage that so many of the food service staff, the bus drivers, and education support professionals who keep our schools running and our children learning, struggle themselves to provide for their own families.
You know better than most, supporting educators also means finding the right balance on testing.
Tests should go back to their original purpose – giving useful information to teachers and parents so that you know and parents know how our kids in our schools are doing and then we can come together to help them improve.
But when you’re forced to teach to a test, our children miss out on some of the most valuable lessons and experiences they can gain in the classroom.
And you know who that hurts the most? That hurts our low-income kids in communities the most. Because when I look at what’s being offered in schools from district to district and I see how extracurricular activities have been stripped out of schools serving low-income schools but not out of schools that are better funded, that is fundamentally wrong. That is a form of inequality and we are not going to stand for it.
And that’s why I believe supporting educators means supporting unions that help create the strongest middle class in the history of the world!
You see, I know you’re not just fighting for your members; you’re fighting for your students and for families across America.
So here’s what I want you to know – for anyone who has faced a hostile state legislature, a union-busting governor, or both, help is on the way!
I will fight back against the attacks and I will stand up for your right to organize and bargain collectively.
Now, all these things can only be done in partnership. So I’m asking you and educators across the country to work with me, but I’m also asking you…advise me, and hold me accountable. Keep advocating for your students and your profession!

Now the second part of TLC is learning, and we need to educate our children for the future, not the past.
Technological change is transforming every aspect of our lives, and we want our children to be creators, innovators, entrepreneurs, critical thinkers who could collaborate and communicate within their own communities and around the world.
We need our students to be nimble, flexible, and brave enough to adopt and build on their skills!
You know this better than most, the world is changing but our education system is lagging behind.
Consider this – there are more than half a million open jobs that require computing skills across the country and in every major industry. But the majority of schools in the United States do not offer computer science. It isn’t just that there is a shortage of computer science teachers, it’s that we haven’t made a commitment to do that.
But I have, I’m going to prioritize. Give our educators the time and the resources they need to learn how to integrate digital tools into the curriculum.
You know, on top of that, more than 70% of teachers assign homework that requires broadband access, but more than five million children don’t have it.
We need to finish the job and make sure every home in America has access to high speed affordable broadband connectivity!
We’re going to close the gap so that every child has a chance to know computer science. We’re going to close the homework gap. We’re going to use all the tools at our disposal, including technology to give our kids and our educators what you need in these times that we’re living in.
And finally, there’s the C in TLC – community.
So much of what happens inside your classrooms is determined by what happens outside your classrooms. And you see it everyday.
Too many of our public school students are living in poverty. That’s on all of us.
You see students coming to school hungry or exhausted from a long night at a shelter.
One night in Iowa during the caucus there, a group of teachers was sitting in the front row of my event, and when it came time for questions, one of the teachers said, “What should I do? It’s cold outside and I have kids coming to school with no jackets, nothing warm to put on.” She said, “I’m going to go buy them something but that’s just the beginning.”
It is time we treated every child as our precious child.

I’ll tell you, let’s not ignore the weight of the problems that those little kids bring on their little shoulders bring to school everyday.
We need to tackle all the problems holding our kids back. And we need to do it together as one American community.
Let’s create more community schools, more partnerships between schools, social services, and nonprofit organizations to provide a range of services and opportunities for kids.
You should not have to be from a well-to-do family to get good mental health services, or join a soccer team, or be in a play at school. This should be within reach of all of our kids.
Now fixing problems like these will take all of us working together, from the community level, all the way up to the presidency.
That’s just one of the many reasons why this election is so important because Donald Trump has a very different idea about all of this.
For starters, he wants to “largely eliminate the Department of Education,” but he said maybe he’ll leave some “tentacles out there”, whatever that means.
Now that agency doesn’t always get it right, but it provides support for vital programs from pre-K to Pell Grants and crucial resources that help low-income students, students with disabilities, and English language learners.
Donald Trump would leave out our most vulnerable students and let them fend for themselves. He even says America spends too much on education. And this is coming from someone who wants to give millionaires a $3 trillion tax cut over the next decade.
I’d like to hear him explain that to parents in Detroit where students share classrooms with rodents or in rural South Carolina where the schools are falling to pieces.
If you want to know how Donald Trump approaches education, look at his so-called Trump University. Hard to believe, but they took advantage of vulnerable Americans encouraging them to max out their credit cards, empty their retirement savings, destroy their financial futures. No wonder Donald Trump is being sued for fraud.
The bottom line is, that just like Trump shouldn’t have his finger on the button, or his hands on our economy, he should not have anything to do with our children’s education and our public schools.

You know, parents and educators across America are already worried about what they are calling and telling me they’re calling “The Trump Effect.” Bullying and harassment is on the rise in our schools.
Last week a mother in Wisconsin wrote me a letter saying that her adopted son had turned to her and said “If Trump becomes president, he’s going to make me go back to Ethiopia.”
That’s the kind of fear Donald Trump is creating in the heart of a 10-year-old American boy.
So I wish more people thought about how Donald Trump’s rants are being heard by our children…
…You would not tolerate that kind of behavior in your classrooms. Let’s not tolerate it from someone trying to become President of the United States!
My friends, we are so much better than this.
America is a big-hearted, fair-minded country. We teach our children this is one nation, under God, indivisible, with justice and liberty for all!
That means it. That means for all, not just those who look a certain way, or worship a certain way, or love a certain way, that’s why we’re counting on the American people to make the right choice in November for our future.
We are stronger when our children have the chance to live up to their full potential. And we are stronger when we invest in public education and our educators.
I feel passionately about this because I’m the product of great public schools and great teachers.
I could keep you here all day telling you stories about what they taught me. In first grade, Miss Taylor read us Winnie the Pooh. In fifth grade, Mrs. Krauss taught us about Sputnik and told us we had to work a lot harder in math and science. In six grade, Mrs. King drilled us in grammar. In junior high and high school, my teachers challenged me. They helped me understand the world I lived in and what I might do to make a difference. That’s what all of you do every day – spark a student’s love for learning, change the course of his or her life for the better.
…As passionate as I’ve always been, I’m even more passionate now.
With my granddaughter and my grandson, I’m going to make sure that not only that they have opportunities, that’s not enough; I want to make sure every child has opportunities. I want to make sure our country lives up to our promise to the next generation. I want them to feel they can go as far as their hard work and talent and that every other child has the same chance.
So let’s keep going. Let’s keep making our case. Let’s keep working for better schools, more resources, more support for educators.
…I will be a president who helps you get the support you deserve and need. That’s a promise because I believe in public education. I believe in educators. I believe in all of you. Let’s give our kids every chance they deserve. Thank you so much!

Hello, New Hampshire! It is so great – it is so great to be here with so many friends old and new!
Thank you! Thank you so much!
I have to say it is such a great privilege to be here with Sen. Sanders. Being here with him in New Hampshire, I can’t help but reflect how much more enjoyable this election is going to be now that we are on the same side.
Because you know what? We are stronger together!
And I want to give a special thanks to someone who has been with Sen. Sanders every step of the way, not just throughout this campaign but over the years. His wonderful wife, Jane Sanders.
…Over these last few weeks, Bernie and I have worked together on plans to put college within reach for more people and to ensure that everyone in America has access to quality, affordable health care.
Now, with your help, we are joining forces to defeat Donald Trump win in November, and yes, together, build a future we can all believe in.
Just as Bernie said, over the years, I’ve gotten to know him as a colleague and a friend. His reputation for passionate advocacy hasn’t always made him the most popular person in Washington. But you know what? That’s generally a sign you’re doing something right.
And throughout this campaign, Sen. Sanders has brought people off the sidelines and into the political process. He has energized and inspired a generation of young people who cared deeply about our country and are building a movement that is bigger than one candidate or one campaign.
So thank you, thank you, Bernie, for your endorsement. But more than that thank you for your lifetime of fighting injustice. I am proud to be fighting alongside you.

Because, my friends, this is a time for all of us to stand together. These have been difficult days for America.
Yes they do.
And taking on the systemic racism that plagues our country and rebuilding the frayed bonds of trust and respect between law enforcement and the communities they serve will require contributions from all of us.
And we have to begin by starting to listen to each other. And more than that, we then have to come together to do something that will help us fix these problems and heal these wounds.
We have to reform our broken criminal justice system, take back our democracy from wealthy special interests, and make our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top.
And you know what? We have to do all these things at the same time.
That’s why throughout this campaign, we’ve been calling for eliminating racial profiling and disparities in sentencing, ending the era of mass incarceration, dismantling the school to prison pipeline, providing more employment opportunities for formerly incarcerated people.
In addition to that, I am proposing two new steps that give law enforcement the support they need while also stopping the tragedy of black men and women and black children being killed in police incidents.
First, let’s bring law enforcement and they communities they swear to protect and serve together to develop national guidelines on the use of force by police officers.
And second, let’s provide better training on implicit bias.
That remains a problem even in our best police departments, but it also remains a problem across society.
And I’m asking for all of us to really search our hearts and minds to make sure we don’t – we don’t – have those implicit biases.
Let’s learn from police departments like Dallas that had made strong progress and apply their lessons nationwide. Because everyone in every community benefits when there is respect for the law and when everyone is respected by the law.
Remember, when gunfire broke out in Dallas, the peaceful protesters and the crowds that had gathered to support them ran to safety while the police officers who just minutes before had been talking with and taking pictures with and protecting protesters, the police officers ran the other way. They ran into the gunfire.

That’s the kind of courage and dedication our police and first responders show every single day. So yes, let’s take real meaningful action to end the epidemic of gun violence in America.
From Sandy Hook to Orlando to Dallas and so many other places, these tragedies tear at our soul and so do the incidents that don’t even dominate the headlines.
Just this past Sunday, a young man, Seth Rich, who worked for the Democratic National Committee to expand voting rights was shot and killed in his neighborhood in Washington. He was just 27 years old.
Surely, we can agree that weapons of war have no place on the streets of America.
Our police and first responders should never have to face a madman, a racist, a person filled with hatred with an assault weapon. We owe it to every officer who puts his or her life to protect us so let’s protect them.
And we can’t stop there. This is part of a broader challenge across our country. Inequality is too high, wages are too low and it is just too hard to get ahead for too many Americans.
We need an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, not just the millionaires and billionaires but everybody.
But to do that, we need to go big and we need to go bold. This isn’t a time for half measures.
So we are setting five ambitious goals.
For starters, in my first 100 days as president, we will make the biggest investment in new good-paying jobs since World War II.
More jobs here in New Hampshire and across our country, especially in places that have been left out and left behind – in communities of color, in coal country, in Indian country, everywhere where a person deserves the same shot at the American dream as anybody else in our country.
And when I say good-paying jobs, I mean it.
As Bernie said, Donald Trump thinks wages are too high. He actually stood on a debate stage and said so. He does want to get rid of the federal minimum wage altogether.
Well, both Sen. Sanders and I believe anyone who is willing to work hard should be able to find a job that pays well enough to support a family. And Bernie is right – $7.25 an hour is a starvation wage.
So sorry, Donald, if you’re watching, we’re not cutting the minimum wage, we’re raising the minimum wage.
And we’re going to create millions of new jobs by making America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
As Bernie reminds us so powerfully, we owe it to future generations to work together to combat climate change, and we’re going to do it.

We’ve got the intelligence, we’ve got the innovation. We’re going to roll up our sleeves and demonstrate to the world what America is made of. We’re going to have that clean energy economy, and we’re going to make it work for everybody.
And make no mistake, we will defend American jobs and American workers by saying no to the assault on the right to organize and bargain collectively.
And we’re going to say no to a tax on working families and no to bad trade deals and unfair trade practices, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Second, we’re going to make college debt-free for all and help millions of people struggling with existing student debts save thousands of dollars.
Here in New Hampshire, you know students are carrying one of the highest debt loads in the country.
I’ve heard from young people who can’t start a business, move out of their parents’ home or even get married because of all of the student debt holding them back.
So with your help, we’re going to make it so future students won’t have to borrow a dime to attend public colleges or universities.
Thanks to the new proposals Sen. Sanders and I worked on together for families making less than $125,000 a year, we will eliminate tuition at those schools altogether.
And we will do more to help students cover all of the costs of getting an education, including books, supplies, and living expenses. Because in the words of a student I met in New Hampshire, paying for college shouldn’t be the hardest thing about going to college.
Third, we’re going to rewrite the rules and crack down on companies that ship jobs and profits overseas. Let’s reward the companies that share profits with their employees instead.
And we will defend and strengthen the tough reforms that President Obama put in place on the financial industry and not let Donald Trump tear them up because we do – we do – need to make sure Wall Street can never wreck Main Street again.
Number four, we’re going to make sure Wall Street corporations and the super rich pay their fair share of taxes.
When people say the game is rigged the best evidence is our tax code. It is riddled with scams, loopholes, and special breaks.
It is wrong that some millionaires do pay a lower tax rate than their secretaries, and we’re going to stop it.
Now compare what Sen. Sanders and I intend to do with Donald Trump’s plan. His tax plan would make our current system even worse. Independent analysts say he would add $30 trillion to the national debt in order to give a massive gift to wealthiest Americans, Wall Street money managers, and our largest corporations. But after all, what else should we expect from someone who calls himself the “King of Debt”?
Now, we’ve been pointing out the problems with his tax plan for months and I think Donald is starting to feel the pressure.
In fact, even as we speak, he’s apparently bringing in the biggest names and trickle down supply side economics to help him figure out what to do.
Now, these are the same advisers who brought us 30 years of a disastrous Republican philosophy that gave the huge breaks to those at the top.
Now, you don’t have to be a psychic to know what happens next.

They’re going to come back with another plan with maybe some bells and whistles that tries to disguise the fact that they still are slashing taxes for the wealthy, large corporations, and Donald Trump himself.
And they’ll try to use voodoo economics to tell us all the ways it will actually help the economy. But they’re not fooling anybody. At least, I hope they’re not.
Just like his current time, which he calls “inspiring”, “tremendous”, and “amazing”, you know, he uses a lot of adjectives to avoid telling you any specifics.
Here’s what we know for sure. Whatever he comes out with next is going to give huge tax cuts to the corporations and the rich at the expense of the middle class.
Now, there’s that old saying, you’ve heard it – I used to hear it a lot in Arkansas, you can put lipstick on a pig but it’s still a pig.
And I’ve got to tell you, the first time that the Republicans pulled voodoo economics, you know they fooled us. Shame on them. But if they come back with the same argument and people fall for it, shame on us.
But I will promise you this. Sen. Sanders and I will spare no effort to make sure the people of America know that once again Trump and his cronies are once again trying to pull the wool over our eyes and come back with the same failed policies that hurt us before. We’re not going to let them get away with it again.
And finally, our fifth goal is we’re going to step up and respond to the way American families actually live and work in the 21st century. Our families and our work places have changed, so isn’t it time for our policies to change too?
Let’s expand Social Security to match today’s realities, not cut or privatize it.
Let’s join the rest of the developed world and offer paid family leave.
And finally, let’s guarantee equal pay for women once and for all.
Now, I can just envision the tweets Donald is putting together. And you know, Donald Trump can accuse me of playing the woman card all he wants. If fighting for equal pay and paid family leave is playing the woman card, then deal me in.
And I’ll tell you, these aren’t just my fights. These are Bernie’s fights. These are America’s fights.
And I feel with all my being these are fights we have to wage and win together.
As Bernie and his supporters have argued so eloquently, we won’t get anywhere unless we overhaul our campaign finance system.
It is past time to end the stranglehold of wealthy special interests in Washington and get back to government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
That’s why as president from my very first days, I will make campaign finance reform a top priority. We will do everything we can to overturn Citizens United.

And we will require everybody – Democrats, Republicans, Independents – whoever to disclose all of their donors.
And while we’re at it, we are going to create a small donor matching system to make it easy for more Americans to be elected at every level of government.
Because just like Bernie, I have met so many impressive people here in New Hampshire and across America with great ideas for our country. I want to see you run for office and win.
And here’s another radical idea – let’s make it easier to vote, not harder.
Let’s fight back against attacks on voting rights across the country – attacks that disproportionately affect low-income voters, people of color, students, the elderly, and women.
That means we need to restore the Voting Rights Act and keep going. All Americans should be automatically registered to vote on their 18th birthday. Every state should have at least 20 days of in-person voting, and no one in America should ever have to wait more than 30 minutes to cast their ballot.
So, Sen. Sanders and I will be working to get unaccountable money out of politics and the voices of everyday Americans back in. Because as Bernie has said, this isn’t a progressive issue, it’s not a conservative issue, it’s an American issue.

And let me close with this. To everyone here and everyone across the country who poured your heart and soul into Sen. Sanders’s campaign, thank you. Thank you.
I was proud of the campaign we ran. It was a campaign about issues, not insults.
And our country desperately needs your voices and involvement and so does this campaign and so does the Democratic Party. Because you know what? We need to take back the Senate and take back the House and make sure we have Democratic governors and Democratic state legislators.
Let’s open the doors to everyone who shares our progressive values. This is one of the most important elections in our lifetimes. So I’m asking you to stand with us and I’m asking you to keep working in the weeks, months, and, yes, years ahead. You will always have a seat at the table when I am in the White House.
As Bernie will tell you, talk is cheap. We need to keep fighting to make sure everything we’ve stood for is real in the lives of people across America.
This amazing country of ours is worthy of our best efforts.
This election, let’s send a clear message – in America, we don’t tear each other down; we lift each other up. We build bridges, not walls. We put common interests ahead of self interests. We stand together because we’re stronger together.
So I need your help. Please join this campaign. Make it your own. You can take out your phone right now and text JOIN – J-O-I-N – 47246 or go to HillaryClinton.com. We accept $27 donations too, you know?
I can’t tell you how grateful I am to be standing here with Sen. Sanders because I think both of us realize that each of our campaigns together represent the best of who we are. And now it is time for us to take that message to the rest of the country.
I am fully aware that the other side will do everything possible to distort, to disinform, and we can’t let that happen. We have to be standing up and fighting for the America that we know we can create together.
I am confident and optimistic about our future, particularly when it comes to young people. I think America’s best years are still ahead of us.
So join with us. Let’s make this happen together and win the election. Thank you very much!

…Thank you all very, very much. Please be seated. It’s wonderful being back here.
It’s always a special privilege having grown up in Chicago and the suburbs to be here in the state capitol and especially here in this great historic place filled with so much meaning not just for Illinois but for our country. And I’m delighted to have this opportunity to talk with you about the state of our country today.
Nearly 160 years ago, Abraham Lincoln gave a speech in this state house that marked a turning point in the political life of our nation.
The question of slavery was being fiercely debated across America. Roughly half the states allowed it, half abolished it, and some people, including Lincoln, believed that until it was gone entirely, our country will never be truly united and at peace.
So on June 16, 1858, when Mr. Lincoln kicked off his campaign for the United States Senate, he delivered an address on how slavery was tearing our country apart and that it must go.
Some thought that he ended up losing the Senate race because of that speech but then he won the presidency and some thought it was because of that speech.
President Lincoln led America during the most challenging period in our nation’s history. He defended our union, our constitution, and the idea of a nation conceived in liberty and dedicated the proposition that all men are created equal.
His legacy included laws and amendments that enshrined those values for future generations. They protect and guide us still.
I’m here today in this place because the words Lincoln spoke all those years ago, still hold resonance for us now.
Remember. He said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free.”
“I do not expect”, he went on, “the union to be dissolved. I do not expect the house to fall. But I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will become all one thing or all the other.”
The challenge that we face today do not approach those of Lincoln’s time. Not even close. And we should be very clear about that.
But recent events have left people across America asking hard questions about whether we are still a house divided.
Despite our best efforts and highest hopes, America’s long struggle with race is far from finished.

In just the past week, we saw black men killed by police and five police officers killed by a sniper targeting white police.
There is too much violence and hate in our country. Too little trust and common ground.
It can feel impossible to have the conversations we need to have to fix what’s broken.
And despite being the richest country on Earth, we have too much economic inequality and that also undermines the foundation of our democracy.
Lincoln understood that threat too. He deeply believed everyone deserved in his words “a fair chance in the race of life”. He saw it as a defining feature of the United States and believed it was vital that hardworking people be free to enjoy the fruits of their own labor. It’s one of the reasons he was so strongly against slavery because it violated that entire notion.
And as president, he took pains to use the tools of government to create more economic opportunity for Americans at every level of society.
So too must we fight inequality and create opportunity in our time, not just for some Americans but for all.
So I come today as a mother and a grandmother to two beautiful little children who I want them and all of our children to grow up in a country where violence like the kind we saw last week doesn’t happen again and where the American dream is big enough for everyone.
I’m also here as a candidate for president who is deeply concerned about the divisions that still hold our people apart and our nation back.
I believe that our future peace and prosperity depends on whether we meet this moment with honesty and courage.
That means taking a hard look at our laws and our attitudes. It means embracing policies that promote justice for all people and standing firm against any attempt to roll back the clock on the rights and opportunities that so many sacrificed so much to secure.
And all of that starts with doing a better job of listening to each other.
We need to listen to the families whose loved ones who have been killed in police incidents. Alton Sterling and Philando Castile are just the latest in a long and painful litany of African-Americans dying after encounters with police officers.
We remember Laquan McDonald killed in Chicago a year and a half ago, and Sandra Bland, who grew up in Illinois who died one year ago today.
Time after time, no one is held accountable, and surely we can all agree that’s deeply wrong and needs to change.
And yes, we do need to listen to those who say Black Lives Matter.

Too many black Americans, especially young men, feel like their lives are disposable and they worry every single day about what might happen. They have every reason to feel that way and it’s absolutely unacceptable.
Everyone in America should be treated with respect and dignity. Surely that is something we can all unite behind.
We need to acknowledge the five Latinos who also lost their lives in police incidents last week. Their stories didn’t get national media coverage but their families and their communities are mourning too.
And at the same time, we need to listen to the principled police officers working hard everyday to rebuild trust with the communities they serve and protect.
Our men and women in blue put their lives on the line everyday to keep us safe and to keep our democracies strong.
Remember what Michael Krol, Michael Smith, Lorne Ahrens, Brent Thompson, and Patrick Zamarrippa were doing when they died. They were protecting a peaceful march. They were people cloaked in authority making sure their fellow citizens could exercise their right to protest authority, and there is nothing more vital to our democracy than that. And they gave their lives for it.
David Brown, the Dallas Police Chief, said that when it comes to overcoming systemic racism and so many other problems in society, we ask too much of the police and too little of everyone else. I think he’s absolutely right.
This is our problem and we all need to work together to solve it.
We also need to listen to the families crying out for relief from gun violence.
President Obama’s trip to Dallas yesterday was the 11th time he had spoken to a city in mourning after a mass shooting.
The wrong people keep getting their hands on guns and not just any guns – military weapons like the kind that the Dallas killer had which allowed him to outgun the police.
And the vast majority of gun owners agree, we have to come together around common sense steps to prevent gun violence.

If we’re looking for common ground, this is common ground. And I hope that we will from Washington to Springfield to everywhere across America come to agreement about that.
Now, I understand that just saying these things together may upset some people.
I’m talking about police reform just a few days after a horrific attack on police officers. I’m talking about courageous, honorable police officers, just a few days after officer-involved shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota.
I’m bringing up guns in a country where just talking about comprehensive background checks and getting assault weapons off the streets gets you demonized.
But all these things can be true at the same time.
We do need criminal justice reform to save lives and make sure all Americans are treated as equals in rights and dignity.
We do need to support our police departments that are trying to get it right and honor the men and women who protect us everyday.
We do need to do more to stop gun violence. We may disagree about how to do these things but surely we can all agree with those basic premises and I hope and pray the past week has showed us how true they are.
Now these are the issues on many of our minds right now and if we stop there that would lead us with plenty of work to do.
So I wish I could say that was everything that we must address.
But these events are taking place against a much broader backdrop of fear and anxiety. So I think we have to face all of it.
We do need to make sure our economy works for everyone, not just those at the top.
The changes that have roiled our economy over the past few decades are not just numbers on a page that economists study. They are real forces that families are dealing with up close and personal everyday.
Not long ago, I met with factory workers here in Illinois whose jobs are being sent abroad and heard how painful the consequences have been for them and their families.
I’ve talked to workers across our country who’ve seen good jobs lost to technologies, who keep being told to get more training even though that often doesn’t lead to a good new job on the other end.
These economic disruptions have stripped too many people of their sense of security and dignity. And that can have devastating consequences.
We have to ask ourselves why are drug addiction and suicides on the rise in parts of our country? That’s not just about economics. It’s about something deeper that is connected to economics, a sense of dislocation even a pessimism about whether America holds anything for them or cares about them at all.
That’s why I’ve pledged in my first 100 days as president, we will make the biggest investment in new good-paying jobs since World War II.
We need more jobs you can support a family on especially in places that have been left out and left behind, from coal country to Indian country to inner cities to every place that’s been hollowed out when a factory closed or a mine shut down.

Because everyone in America deserves that fair chance in the race of life that President Lincoln described.
Now, I realize that our politics have contributed to the sense of division that many Americans feel right now.
And as someone in the middle of a hotly-fought political campaign, I cannot stand here and claim that my words and actions haven’t sometimes fueled the partisanship that often stands in the way of progress. So I recognize that I have to do better too.
I’m running for president with the belief that we need to face up to these challenges and fix them in order to become a stronger, fairer country.
And in times like these, we need a president who can help pull us together, not split us apart.
And that is why I believe Donald Trump is so dangerous.
His campaign is as divisive as any we have seen in our lifetimes. It is built on stoking mistrust and pitting American against American. It’s there in everything he says and everything he promises to do as president.
It’s there in how he wants to ban Muslims from coming to the United States and toyed with creating a database to track Muslims in America.
It’s there in the way he demeans women. It is promotion of an anti-Semitic image pushed by neo-Nazis. And in the months that he’s spent trying to discredit the citizenship and legitimacy of our first black president.
Last night in an interview he said that he understands systemic bias against black people because – and I quote – “even against me, the system is rigged”. Went on to say, “I can relate to it very much myself.” Even this – the killing of people – is somehow all about him.
It’s there on his proposals on immigration. He says he’ll round up 11 million people and kick them out.
He’s actually described a special deportation force that would go around America pulling people out of their homes and workplaces, pulling children out of school.

I got a letter from a mother the other day who said her adopted son asked her with a shaky voice if President Trump would send him back to Ethiopia.
When kids are scared by political candidates and policy debates, it’s a sign that something has gone badly wrong.
And we see it in the violence that Donald Trump encouraged toward protesters at his rallies and the strange things he has said about the violence that will occur if we don’t elect him.
He says that if he doesn’t win, we – and again I quote – “won’t even have a country anymore. America is not going to continue to survive.”
I do not know what he’s talking about. But I do know we don’t need that kind of fear-mongering, not now, not ever.
And he’s gone even further than that.
He has taken aim at some of our most cherished democratic values and institutions.
He wants to revoke the citizenship of four million Americans born in this country to immigrant parents and eliminate the bedrock principle enshrined in the 14th Amendment that if you’re born in America, you’re a citizen of America.
He said that a distinguished American born in Indiana, a judge, can’t be trusted to do his job because his parents were Mexican. He called him a Mexican judge over and over again. He knew the judge had been born in Indiana. But it was a cynical calculated attempt to fan the flames of racial division and designed to undermine people’s faith in our judicial system.
Why would someone running for president want to do that?
And even that’s not all.
He said that as commander in chief, he would order our troops to commit war crimes and insisted they would follow his orders even though that goes against decades of military training and the military code.
He’s banished members of the press who have criticized him. Is there any doubt he would do the same as president? Imagine, if he had not just Twitter and cable news to go after his critics and opponents but also the IRS or for that matter our entire military.
Given what we have seen and heard do any of us think he’d be restrained?
And he has shown contempt for and ignorance of our Constitution. Last week, he met with House Republicans in Washington to try to assuage their serious concerns about him.
One member asked whether he’d protect Article I, which defines the separation of powers between Congress and the executive branch. Here’s the answer he reportedly gave: “I want to protect Article I, Article II, Article XII.”
Well, here’s the thing, there is no Article XII. Not even close.
That was a serious question from an elected representative and he either didn’t care enough to answer it seriously or he didn’t know where to begin.

Even the most stalwart Republicans were alarmed by that and well they and we should be.
The very first thing a new president does is take an oath to protect and defend the Constitution. To do that with any meaning, you’ve got to know what’s in it and you have to respect what’s in it.
I do wish Donald Trump would listen to other people once in a while. He might actually learn something. But he’s made it clear that’s not his thing. As he has said, he only listens to himself.
This man is the nominee of the party of Lincoln. We are watching it become the party of Trump, and that’s not just a huge loss for our democracy, it is a threat to it.
Because Donald Trump’s campaign adds up to an ugly, dangerous message to America. A message that you should be afraid, afraid of people whose ethnicity is different or religious faith is different or who were born in a different country or hold different political beliefs.
Make no mistake, there are things to fear in this world and we need to be clear eyed about them. But we are each other’s countrymen and women.
We share this miraculous country. This land and its heritage is yours, mine, and everyone who’s willing to pledge and understand the solemn responsibilities of American citizenship.
That’s what indivisible means, that big word that every grade school student knows that we’re in this together even if that’s not always easy.
So let’s think better of each other. Let’s hold in the face of our challenges, not turn on each other or tear each other down.
Let’s put ourselves in the shoes of police officers, kissing their kids and spouses goodbye everyday and heading off to a dangerous job we need them to do.
Let’s put ourselves in the shoes of African-Americans and Latinos and try as best as we can to imagine what it would be like if we had to have the talk with our kids about how carefully they need to act – how carefully they need to act because the slightest wrong move could get them hurt or killed.

And yes, let’s put ourselves in the shoes of Donald Trump’s supporters.
We may disagree on the causes and the solutions to the challenges we face. But I believe like anyone else, they’re trying to figure out their place in a fast changing America. They want to know how to make a good living and how to give their kids better futures and opportunities.
That’s why we’ve got to reclaim the promise of America for all our people no matter who they vote for.
And let’s be more than allies to each other. Let’s take on each other’s struggles as our own.
My life’s work is built on the conviction that we are stronger together, not separated into factions or sides, not shouting over each other but together.
Our economy is stronger when everyone contributes to it and everyone can benefit from the work they do.
Our community is stronger when we all pull together to solve our problems and restore our faith in each other and by doing so in the promise of America.
Our country is stronger when we work with friends and allies to promote peace, prosperity, and security around the world.
This is an idea that goes back to the founding of America when 13 separate colonies found a way despite their differences to join together as one nation. They knew they were not stronger on their own and neither are we.
I’ve had the great delight of seeing the musical Hamilton, and I hope more people at least get a chance to listen to the score and to hear the words. There’s a great song by the character playing George Washington who sings “History’s eyes are on us”. That was true then and that’s true today.
If we do this right and if we have the hard conversations that we need to have, we will become stronger still like steel tempered by fire.
Now, don’t get me wrong. Fierce debates are part of who we are. They started at my dinner table with my father and have continued ever since. It is who we are. You’re reminded of that when you read history, when you think about the Lincoln-Douglas debates, debate over the right way forward.
And sometimes we have to balance competing values like freedom and order, justice and security. These are complementary values of American life.
That isn’t easy. Previous generations have had to overcome terrible challenges and no one more so than Abraham Lincoln.
But in the end, if we do the work, we will cease to be divided. We in fact will be indivisible with liberty and justice for all and we will remain in President Lincoln’s words “the last best hope of Earth”.
Thank you all very much.

Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you! Thank you all so much! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you all very, very much!
Thank you for that amazing welcome.
Thank you all for the great convention that we’ve had.
And Chelsea, thank you.
I am so proud to be your mother and so proud of the woman you’ve become.
Thank you for bringing Marc into our family and Charlotte and Aidan into the world.
And Bill, that conversation we started in the law library 45 years ago, it is still going strong.
You know that conversation has lasted through good times that filled us with joy and hard times that tested us.
And I’ve even gotten a few words in along the way.
On Tuesday night, I was so happy to see that my Explainer-in-Chief is still on the job.
I’m also grateful to the rest of my family and the friends of a lifetime.
For all of you whose hard work brought us here tonight, and to those of you who joined our campaign this week, thank you. What a remarkable week it’s been.
We heard the man from Hope, Bill Clinton and the man of Hope, Barack Obama.
America is stronger because of President Obama’s leadership, and I’m better because of his friendship.
We heard from our terrific vice president, the one-and-only Joe Biden. He spoke from his big heart about our party’s commitment to working people as only he can do.
And First Lady Michelle Obama reminded us that our children are watching, and the president we elect is going to be their president, too.

And for those of you out there who are just getting to know Tim Kaine, you will soon going to understand why the people of Virginia keep promoting him – from city council and mayor, to governor, and now senator.
And he will make the whole country proud as our vice president.
And I want to thank Bernie Sanders.
Bernie.
Bernie, your campaign inspired millions of Americans, particularly the young people who threw their hearts and souls into our primary.
You’ve put economic and social justice issues front and center, where they belong.
And to all of your supporters here and around the country. I want you to know I’ve heard you. Your cause is our cause.
Our country needs your ideas, energy, and passion. That is the only way we can turn our progressive platform into real change for America.
We wrote it together – now let’s go out there and make it happen together.
My friends, we’ve come to Philadelphia – the birthplace of our nation – because what happened in this city 240 years ago still has something to teach us today.
We all know the story.But we usually focus on how it turned out and not enough on how close that story came to never being written at all.
When representatives from 13 unruly colonies met just down the road from here, some wanted to stick with the king. Some wanted to stick it to the king.
The revolution hung in the balance.
Then somehow they began listening to each other, compromising, finding common purpose.
And by the time they left Philadelphia, they had begun to see themselves as one nation.
That’s what made it possible to stand up to a king.
That took courage. They had courage.
Our Founders embraced the enduring truth that we are stronger together.
Now, America is once again at a moment of reckoning.
Powerful forces are threatening to pull us apart. Bonds of trust and respect are fraying.
And just as with our founders, there are no guarantees. It truly is up to us.
We have to decide whether we all will work together so we all can rise together.

Our country’s motto is e pluribus unum: out of many, we are one.
Will we stay true to that motto?
Well, we heard Donald Trump’s answer last week at his convention.
He wants to divide us from the rest of the world, and from each other.
He’s betting that the perils of today’s world will blind us to its unlimited promise.
He’s taken the Republican Party a long way, from “Morning in America” to “Midnight in America.”
He wants us to fear the future and fear each other.
Well, you know, a great Democratic President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, came up with the perfect rebuke to Trump more than 80 years ago during a much more perilous time.
“The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”
Now we are clear-eyed about what our country is up against. But we are not afraid.
We will rise to the challenge, just as we always have.
We will not build a wall. Instead, we will build an economy where everyone who wants a good paying job can get one.
And we’ll build a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants who are already contributing to our economy!
We will not ban a religion. We will work with all Americans and our allies to fight and defeat terrorism.
Yet we know there’s a lot of work to do.
Too many people haven’t had a pay raise since the crash. There’s too much inequality. Too little social mobility. Too much paralysis in Washington. Too many threats at home and abroad.
But just look for a minute at the strengths we bring as Americans to meet these challenges.
We have the most dynamic and diverse people in the world.
We have the most tolerant and generous young people we’ve ever had.
We have the most powerful military.
The most innovative entrepreneurs.
The most enduring values – freedom and equality, justice and opportunity.
We should be so proud that these words are associated with us.
I have to tell as your Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries. When people hear those words, they hear America.
So don’t let anyone tell you that our country is weak. We’re not.
Don’t let anyone tell you we don’t have what it takes. We do.
And most of all, don’t believe anyone who says: “I alone can fix it.”
Yes, those were actually Donald Trump’s words in Cleveland. And they should set off alarm bells for all of us.
Really? “I alone can fix it”?
Isn’t he forgetting?
Troops on the front lines. Police officers and fire fighters who run toward danger. Doctors and nurses who care for us. Teachers who change lives. Entrepreneurs who see possibilities in every problem. Mothers who lost children to violence and are building a movement to keep other kids safe.
He’s forgetting every last one of us.

Americans don’t say: “I alone can fix it.” We say: “We’ll fix it together.”
And remember, our Founders fought a revolution and wrote a Constitution so America would never be a nation where one person had all the power.
Two hundred and forty years later, we still put our faith in each other.
Look at what happened in Dallas after the assassinations of five brave police officers.
Police Chief David Brown asked the community to support his force, maybe even join them.
And you know how the community responded? Nearly 500 people applied in just 12 days.
That’s how Americans answer when the call for help goes out.
Twenty years ago I wrote a book called “It Takes a Village.”
A lot of people looked at the title and asked, “What the heck do you mean by that?”
This is what I mean.
None of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community or lift a country totally alone.
America needs every one of us to lend our energy, our talents, our ambition to making our nation better and stronger. I believe that with all my heart.
That’s why “Stronger Together” is not just a lesson from our history. It’s not just a slogan for our campaign. It’s a guiding principle for the country we’ve always been and the future we’re going to build.
A country where the economy works for everyone, not just those at the top.
Where you can get a good job and send your kids to a good school, no matter what zip code you live in.
A country where all our children can dream and those dreams are within reach.
Where families are strong, communities are safe, and yes, where love trumps hate.
That’s the country we’re fighting for. That’s the future we’re working toward.
And so, my friends, it is with humility, determination, and boundless confidence in America’s promise that I accept your nomination for president of the United States!
Now, now, now, sometimes the people at this podium are new to the national stage. As you know, I’m not one of those people.
I’ve been your First Lady. Served eight years as a senator from the great State of New York. Then I represented all of you as Secretary of State.
But my job titles only tell you what I’ve done. They don’t tell you why.

The truth is, through all these years of public service, the “service” part has always come easier to me than the “public” part.
I get it that some people just don’t know what to make of me.
So let me tell you.
The family I’m from, well, no one had their name on big buildings.
My family were builders of a different kind – builders in the way most American families are.
They used whatever tools they had – whatever God gave them – and whatever life in America provided – and built better lives and better futures for their kids.
My grandfather worked in the same Scranton lace mill for 50 years. Because he believed that if he gave everything he had, his children would have a better life than he did. And he was right.
My dad, Hugh, made it to college. He played football at Penn State and enlisted in the Navy after Pearl Harbor.
When the war was over he started his own small business, printing fabric for draperies. I remember watching him stand for hours over silk screens.
He wanted to give my brothers and me opportunities he never had. And he did.
My mother, Dorothy, was abandoned by her parents as a young girl. She ended up on her own at 14, working as a house maid.
She was saved by the kindness of others.
Her first grade teacher saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and brought extra food to share the entire year.
The lesson she passed on to me years later stuck with me: No one gets through life alone.
We have to look out for each other and lift each other up.
And she made sure I learned the words from our Methodist faith: “Do all the good you can, for all the people you can, in all the ways you can, as long as ever you can.”
So I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, going door-to-door in New Bedford, Massachusetts on behalf of children with disabilities who were denied the chance to go to school.
I remember meeting a young girl in a wheelchair on the small back porch of her house. She told me how badly she wanted to go to school – it just didn’t seem possible in those days.
And I couldn’t stop thinking of my mother and what she’d gone through as a child.
It became clear to me that simply caring is not enough.
To drive real progress, you have to change both hearts and laws. You need both understanding and action.
So we gathered facts. We built a coalition. And our work helped convince Congress to ensure access to education for all students with disabilities.
It’s a big idea, isn’t it? Every kid with a disability has the right to go to school.
But how do you make an idea like that real? You do it step-by-step, year-by-year, sometimes even door-by-door.
And my heart just swelled when I saw Anastasia Somoza representing millions of young people on this stage because we changed our laws to make sure she got an education.

So it’s true, I sweat the details of policy – whether we’re talking about the exact level of lead in the drinking water in Flint, Michigan, the number of mental health facilities in Iowa, or the cost of your prescription drugs.
Because it’s not just a detail if it’s your kid – if it’s your family. It’s a big deal. And it should be a big deal to your president too.
After the four days of this convention, you’ve seen some of the people who’ve inspired me.
People who let me into their lives and became a part of mine.
People like Ryan Moore and Lauren Manning. They told their stories Tuesday night.
I first met Ryan as a seven-year old.
He was wearing a full body brace that must have weighed 40 pounds because I leaned over to lift him up.
Children like Ryan kept me going when our plan for universal health care failed and kept me working with leaders of both parties to help create the Children’s Health Insurance Program that covers 8 million kids in our country.
Lauren Manning who stood here with such grace and power was gravely injured on 9/11.
It was the thought of her, and Debbie St. John, who you saw in the movie, and John Dolan and Joe Sweeney, and all the victims and survivors, that kept me working as hard as I could in the Senate on behalf of 9/11 families and our first responders who got sick from their time at Ground Zero.
I was thinking of Lauren, Debbie and all the others 10 years later in the White House Situation Room when President Obama made the courageous decision that finally brought Osama bin Laden to justice.
And in this campaign, I’ve met so many people who motivate me to keep fighting for change.
And, with your help, I will carry all of your voices and stories with me to the White House.
And you heard from Republicans and Independents who are supporting our campaign.
Well, I will be a president for Democrats, Republicans, Independents.
For the struggling, the striving and the successful.
For those who vote for me and for those who don’t.
For all Americans together!
Tonight, we’ve reached a milestone in our nation’s march toward a more perfect union: the first time that a major party has nominated a woman for president.
Standing here as my mother’s daughter, and my daughter’s mother, I’m so happy this day has come.
I’m happy for grandmothers and little girls and everyone in between.
I’m happy for boys and men, too – because when any barrier falls in America, for anyone, it clears the way for everyone.
After all, when there are no ceilings, the sky’s the limit.
So let’s keep going, until every one of the 161 million women and girls across America has the opportunity she deserves to have.

But even more important than the history we make tonight is the history we will write together in the years ahead.
Let’s begin with what we’re going to do to help working people in our country get ahead and stay ahead.
Now, I don’t think President Obama and Vice President Biden get the credit they deserve for saving us from the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes.
Our economy is so much stronger than when they took office – nearly 15 million new private-sector jobs, 20 million more Americans with health insurance. And an auto industry that just had its best year ever.
Now, that’s real progress.
But none of us can be satisfied with the status quo, not by a long shot.
We’re still facing deep-seated problems that developed long before the recession and have stayed with us through the recovery.
I’ve gone around our country talking to working families. And I’ve heard from many of you who feel like the economy sure isn’t working.
Some of you are frustrated – even furious. And you know what? You’re right. It’s not yet working the way it should.
Americans are willing to work – and work hard. But right now, an awful lot of people feel there is less and less respect for the work they do. And less respect for them, period.
Democrats, we are the party of working people. But we haven’t done a good enough job showing we get what you’re going through, and that we’re going to do something to help.
So I want to tell you tonight how we will empower Americans to live better lives.
My primary mission as president will be to create more opportunity and more good jobs with rising wages right here in the United States, from my first day in office to my last!
Especially in places that for too long have been left out and left behind.
From our inner cities to our small towns, from Indian Country to Coal Country.
From communities ravaged by addiction to regions hollowed out by plant closures.
And here’s what I believe.
I believe America thrives when the middle class thrives. I believe that our economy isn’t working the way it should because our democracy isn’t working the way it should.
That’s why we need to appoint Supreme Court justices who will get money out of politics and expand voting rights, not restrict them.
And, if necessary, we will pass a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United!
I believe American corporations that have gotten so much from our country should be just as patriotic in return.
Many of them are. But too many aren’t.
It’s wrong to take tax breaks with one hand and give out pink slips with the other.
And I believe Wall Street can never, ever be allowed to wreck Main Street again.
And I believe in science. I believe climate change is real and that we could save our planet while creating millions of good-paying clean energy jobs.
I believe that when we have millions of hardworking immigrants contributing to our economy, it would be self-defeating and inhumane to try to kick them out.

Comprehensive immigration reform will grow our economy and keep families together, and it’s the right thing to do.
So whatever party you belong to, or if you belong to no party at all, if you share these beliefs, this is your campaign.
If you believe that companies should share profits, not pad executive bonuses, join us.
If you believe the minimum wage should be a living wage and no one working full time should have to raise their children in poverty, join us.
If you believe that every man, woman, and child in America has the right to affordable health care, join us.
If you believe that we should say “no” to unfair trade deals, that we should stand up to China, that we should support our steelworkers and autoworkers and homegrown manufacturers, then join us.
If you believe we should expand Social Security and protect a woman’s right to make her own heath care decisions, then join us.
And yes, if you believe that your working mother, wife, sister, or daughter deserves equal pay, join us.
That’s how we’re going to make sure this economy works for everyone, not just those at the top.
Now, you didn’t hear any of this, did you, from Donald Trump at his convention.
He spoke for 70-odd minutes – and I do mean odd.
And he offered zero solutions.
But we already know he doesn’t believe these things.
No wonder he doesn’t like talking about his plans.
You might have noticed, I love talking about mine.
In my first 100 days, we will work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since World War II.
Jobs in manufacturing, clean energy, technology and innovation, small business, and infrastructure.
If we invest in infrastructure now, we’ll not only create jobs today, but lay the foundation for the jobs of the future.
And we will transform the way we prepare our young people for those jobs.
Bernie Sanders and I will work together to make college tuition-free for the middle class and debt-free for all!
We will also liberate millions of people who already have student debt.
It’s just not right that Donald Trump can ignore his debts, but students and families can’t refinance their debts.
And something we don’t say often enough: Sure, college is crucial but a four-year degree should not be the only path to a good job.
We’re going to help more people learn a skill or practice a trade and make a good living doing it.

We will give small businesses like my dad’s a boost. Make it easier to get credit. Way too many dreams die in the parking lots of banks.
In America, if you can dream it, you should be able to build it.
And we will help you balance family and work.
And you know what, if fighting for affordable child care and paid family leave is playing the “woman card,” then deal me in!
Now, here’s the other thing, we’re not only going to make all of these investments, we’re going to pay for every single one of them.
And here’s how: Wall Street, corporations, and the super-rich are going to start paying their fair share of taxes.
This is not because we resent success. But when more than 90 percent of the gains have gone to the top 1%, that’s where the money is and we are going to follow the money.
And if companies take tax breaks and then ship jobs overseas, we’ll make them pay us back. And we’ll put that money to work where it belongs — creating jobs here at home!
Now, I imagine that some of you are sitting at home thinking, well that all sounds pretty good. But how are you going to get it done? How are you going to break through the gridlock in Washington?
Well, look at my record. I’ve worked across the aisle to pass laws and treaties and to launch new programs that help millions of people. And if you give me the chance, that’s exactly what I’ll do as president.
But then I also imagine people are thinking out there, “But Trump, he’s a businessman. He must know something about the economy.”
Well, let’s take a closer look, shall we?
In Atlantic City, 60 miles from here, you will find contractors and small businesses who lost everything because Donald Trump refused to pay his bills.
Now, remember what the president said last night. Don’t boo, vote!
But think of this: People who did the work and needed the money, not because he couldn’t pay them but because he wouldn’t pay them. He just stiffed them.
And you know that sales pitch he’s making to be your president? Put your faith in him – and you’ll win big? That’s the same sales pitch he made to all those small businesses. Then Trump walked away and left working people holding the bag.
He also talks a big game about putting America First.
Well, please explain to me what part of America First leads him to make Trump ties in China, not Colorado. Trump suits in Mexico, not Michigan. Trump furniture in Turkey, not Ohio. Trump picture frames in India, not Wisconsin.
Donald Trump says he wants to make America great again. Well, he could start by actually making things in America again.
The choice we face in this election is just as stark when it comes to our national security.
You know, anyone reading the news can see the threats and turbulence we face, from Baghdad to Kabul, to Nice and Paris and Brussels, from San Bernardino to Orlando, we’re dealing with determined enemies that must be defeated.

So it’s no wonder people are anxious and looking for reassurance, looking for steady leadership, wanting a leader who understands we are stronger when we work with our allies around the world and care for our veterans here at home.
Keeping our nation safe and honoring the people who do that work will be my highest priority.
I’m proud that we put a lid on Iran’s nuclear program without firing a single shot. Now we have to enforce it and we must keep supporting Israel’s security.
I’m proud that we shaped a global climate agreement. Now we have to hold every country accountable to their commitments, including ourselves.
And I’m proud to stand by our allies in NATO against any threat they face, including from Russia.
I’ve laid out my strategy for defeating ISIS.
We will strike their sanctuaries from the air, and support local forces taking them out on the ground.
We will surge our intelligence so that we detect and prevent attacks before they happen.
We will disrupt their efforts online to reach and radicalize young people in our country.
It won’t be easy or quick, but make no mistake – we will prevail.
Now Donald Trump says – and this is a quote – “I know more about ISIS than the generals do.”
No, Donald, you don’t.
He thinks that he knows more than our military because he claimed our armed forces are “a disaster.”
Well, I’ve had the privilege to work closely with our troops and our veterans for many years, including as a senator on the Armed Services Committee. And I know how wrong he is.
Our military is a national treasure. We entrust our commander-in-chief to make the hardest decisions our nation faces. Decisions about war and peace. Life and death.
A president should respect the men and women who risk their lives to serve our country – including Captain Khan and the sons of Tim Kaine and Mike Pence, both Marines.
So just ask yourself: Do you really think Donald Trump have the temperament to be commander-in-chief?
Donald Trump can’t even handle the rough-and-tumble of a presidential campaign.
He loses his cool at the slightest provocation. When he’s gotten a tough question from a reporter. When he’s challenged in a debate. When he sees a protestor at a rally.
Imagine – if you dare – imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis. A man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons.
I can’t put it any better than Jackie Kennedy did after the Cuban Missile Crisis. She said that what worried President Kennedy during that very dangerous time was that a war might be started – not by big men with self-control and restraint, but by little men – the ones moved by fear and pride.

America’s strength doesn’t come from lashing out. It relies on smarts, judgment, cool resolve, and the precise and strategic application of power.
And that’s the kind of commander-in-chief I pledge to be.
And if we’re serious about keeping our country safe, we also can’t afford to have a president who’s in the pocket of the gun lobby.
I’m not here to repeal the Second Amendment.
I’m not here to take away your guns.
I just don’t want you to be shot by someone who shouldn’t have a gun in the first place.
We will work tirelessly with responsible gun owners to pass common-sense reforms and keep guns out of the hands of criminals, terrorists and all others who would do us harm.
You know, for decades, people have said this issue was too hard to solve and the politics were too hot to touch.
But I ask you: how can we just stand by and do nothing?
You heard, you saw, family members of people killed by gun violence on this stage.
You heard, you saw, family members of police officers killed in the line of duty because they were outgunned by criminals.
I refuse to believe we can’t find common ground here.
We have to heal the divides in our country. Not just on guns but on race, immigration, and more.
And that starts with listening – listening to each other, trying, as best we can, to walk in each other’s shoes.
So let’s put ourselves in the shoes of young black and Latino men and women who face the effects of systemic racism, and are made to feel like their lives are disposable.
Let’s put ourselves in the shoes of police officers, kissing their kids and spouses goodbye every day and heading off to do a dangerous and necessary job.
We will reform our criminal justice system from end-to-end, and rebuild trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve.
And we will defend all our rights – civil rights, human rights and voting rights, women’s rights and workers’ rights, LGBT rights and the rights of people with disabilities!
And we will stand up against mean and divisive rhetoric wherever it comes from.
You know, for the past year, many people made the mistake of laughing off Donald Trump’s comments – excusing him as an entertainer just putting on a show.
They thought he couldn’t possibly mean all the horrible things he says – like when he called women “pigs.” Or said that an American judge couldn’t be fair because of his Mexican heritage. Or when he mocks and mimics a reporter with a disability. Or insults prisoners of war like John McCain – a hero and a patriot who deserves our respect.
At first, I admit, I couldn’t believe he meant it either.
It was just too hard to fathom – that someone who wants to lead our nation could say those things, could be like that.
But here’s the sad truth: There is no other Donald Trump. This is it.
And in the end, it comes down to what Donald Trump doesn’t get: that America is great – because America is good.

So enough with the bigotry and the bombast. Donald Trump’s not offering real change. He’s offering empty promises.
And what are we offering? A bold agenda to improve the lives of people across our country – to keep you safe, to get you good jobs, and to give your kids the opportunities they deserve.
The choice is clear, my friends.
Every generation of Americans has come together to make our country freer, fairer, and stronger.
None of us ever have or can do it alone.
I know that at a time when so much seems to be pulling us apart, it can be hard to imagine how we’ll ever pull together again.
But I’m here to tell you tonight – progress is possible.
I know because I’ve seen it in the lives of people across America who get knocked down and get right back up.
And I know it from my own life. More than a few times, I’ve had to pick myself up and get back in the game.
Like so much else in my life, I got this from my mother. She never let me back down from any challenge.
When I tried to hide from a neighborhood bully, she literally blocked the door. “Go back out there,” she said.
And she was right. You have to stand up to bullies. You have to keep working to make things better, even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce.
We lost our mother a few years ago, but I miss her every day. And I still hear her voice urging me to keep working, keep fighting for right, no matter what.
That’s what we need to do together as a nation.
Though “we may not live to see the glory,” as the song from the musical Hamilton goes, “let us gladly join the fight.”
Let our legacy be about “planting seeds in a garden you never get to see.” That’s why we’re here, not just in this hall, but on this Earth. The Founders showed us that. And so have many others since.
They were drawn together by love of country, and the selfless passion to build something better for all who follow.
That is the story of America.
And we begin a new chapter tonight.
Yes, the world is watching what we do.
Yes, America’s destiny is ours to choose.
So let’s be stronger together, my fellow Americans.
Let’s look to the future with courage and confidence.
Let’s build a better tomorrow for our beloved children and our beloved country.
And when we do, America will be greater than ever.
Thank you and may God bless you and the United States of America!

Thank you!
Hello everyone. It’s great to be here at UNC Greensboro…
I have to say it’s great to be back on the campaign trail.
As you may know, I recently had a cough that turned out to be pneumonia. I tried to power through it but even I had to admit that maybe a few days of rest would do me good.
And I’m not great at taking it easy even under ordinary circumstances but with just two months to go until election day? Sitting at home was pretty much the last place I wanted to be.
But it turns out that having a few days to myself was actually a gift. I talked with some old friends. I spent time with our very sweet dogs. I did some thinking.
You know, the campaign trail doesn’t really encourage reflection. And it’s important to sit with your thoughts every now and then and that did help me reconnect with what this whole campaign is about.
People like me – we’re lucky. When I’m under the weather –
Now, I just want to have a conversation and other people can wave their arms and their signs.
But I want you to think with me for a minute about how I certainly feel lucky when I’m under the weather I can afford to take a few days off. Millions of Americans can’t. They either go to work sick or they lose a paycheck, don’t they?
Lots of Americans still don’t even have insurance or they do but it’s too expensive for them to actually use. So they toss back some Tylenols. They chug orange juice. And they hope that the cough or the virus goes away on its own.
Lots of working parents can’t afford child care, which in many states costs as much as college tuition, so for millions of moms and dads if they get sick there’s no back-up. They’re on their own, aren’t they?

That’s the story for too many people still in America.
When illness strikes or an accident happens, you feel you’re on your own.
If you lose your job or can’t afford college, you’re on your own.
If your aging parents start needing more help and you don’t know what to do, you’re on your own.
Life events like these are catastrophic for some families but mere bumps in the road for others.
I have met so many people living on a razor’s age – one illness away from losing their job, one paycheck away from losing their home.
And that goes against everything we stand for as Americans because some things should not come down to luck; some things should be within reach for everyone no matter what.
Like financial security, like affordable health care, like the peace of mind that goes with knowing that if something goes wrong, your family will be okay.
And above all, the knowledge that no matter what your president is fighting for you and will always have your back.
That right there – that’s why I got into this race. I am running for everyone working hard to support their families – everyone who’s been knocked down but gets back up.
The factory worker on their feet all day and the nurses looking after patients all night.
I’m running for young people like so many of you here who dream of changing our world for the better and for all the parents and grandparents supporting those dreams by dedicating every dollar they can spare to your education.
I’m running for the LGBT teenager here in North Carolina who sees your governor sign a bill legalizing discrimination and suddenly feels like a second class citizen.
And if anyone wonders what the costs of discrimination are, just ask the people and businesses of North Carolina. Look at what’s happening with the NCAA and the ACC. This is where bigotry leads and we can’t afford it. Not here, not anywhere else in America.
I’m running for women like Janelle Turner [sp]. Back in May of last year, Janelle was diagnosed with breast cancer. She went through nearly six months of very tough treatments. Last October, she brought her eight-year-old daughter to one of our rallies in Iowa and they made a huge sign that read “13th chemo yesterday, 3 more, hear me roar!”
Wouldn’t you want to meet the woman behind that sign? Well, I sure did. So we got talking and we stayed in touch.
She keeps promising me she’ll see me at the inauguration, and I’d tell her I’ll keep working to get there but she’d better be there too.
I’m running for her and all the mothers and fathers trying to get and stay healthy so they can be there for their kids.
But perhaps most of all, I’m running for those kids.
Standing up for children has been the work of my life.
As a lawyer for the Children’s Defense Fund, as First Lady in Arkansas and the White House, as a Senator, I have fought for kids housed in adult jails, kids who’ve been neglected and abused, kids who couldn’t get health insurance because of pre-existing conditions, kids with disabilities so they could go to school.

You heard today from someone I’ve known for a long time now grown up and a lovely young woman – Anastasia Somoza.
I learned from my family and my Methodist faith that we are each called to do all the good we can for all the people we can for however long we can.
And to me, that means making sure all our children have the chance to live up to their God-given potentials.
So when I meet a little girl in Nevada terrified that her parents are going to be deported, it hits me right in the gut. When I meet a little boy in Flint, Michigan, who can’t drink the water at home or in school because it’s poisoned with lead, that gets me going.
All I want to do is get to work making things better for them.
That’s why I care so much about national security too. I want to give our kids a safer world. To me that means a world with strong allies, more friends, fewer enemies and fewer nuclear weapons.
It also means leading the fight against climate change so we can leave our kids a healthy planet.
My opponent in this race disagrees with me on every one of these fronts.
Just a few days ago, he said that if another country’s troops taunted ours – not fired at them but taunted them – just taunts – he would respond by blowing them out of the water. He would start a war over that.
That is just one more reasons, my friends, why the stakes in this election are as high as any in our lifetimes.
You know, I’ve been involved in politics in one way or another for many years.
It is not an easy business. It can get rough and I’ve built up some defenses.
When it comes to public service, I’m better at the service part than the public part.
But this is why I do it and this is who I’m in it for – to make life better for children and families. And that’s what this race has always been about for me.
Well, now we’re in the final stretch. There are just 54 days ’till election day. Just 54 days ‘till the most consequential vote of our lifetimes.
And just a little more than a month until early voting starts here in North Carolina. Let’s make these days count particularly because you know what your governor and legislature tried to do – make it harder for young people to vote, harder for people of color, harder for people with disabilities, harder for the elderly.
There can’t be any more motivation than that to make sure every young person, every person of color, every person with a disability, every older person turns out and vote.
So in these final days, let’s try to tune out all the chatter and the non-stop analysis that doesn’t often have much to do with what the next president has to do – to create good jobs, to create opportunities to make it possible for every young person to go to college or to get the skills that you need for the jobs of the future. Let’s talk about what really matters.
And here’s my promise to you. I’m going to close my campaign the way I began my career and the way I will serve as your president should you give me that great honor – focused on opportunities for kids and fairness for families.
Next week, I’ll go to Philadelphia to talk about challenges facing our young people, in Florida to focus on building an economy that welcomes everyone’s contributions, including people with disabilities, then I’ll be back here in North Carolina to meet with more working families.
From now until Nov. 8th, everywhere I go, I’m going to talk about my ideas for our country.

You know, my campaign has rolled out detailed plans in 38 different policy areas. Yes, somebody actually counted. Everything from reining in Wall Street to creating good-paying jobs to fighting Alzheimer’s, supporting people with autism.
You see, I have this old fashioned notion that if you’re running for president, you should say what you plan to do, how you’re going to get it done and how you’re going to pay for it.
You could read it all on my website HillaryClinton.com. We’ve even put it in a new book called, you guessed it, Stronger Together. Get a copy of it because it tells you everything Tim Kaine and I intend to do.
Now, like a lot of women, I have a tendency to over-prepare.
I sweat the details whether we’re talking about the exact level of lead in the water in Flint or how many North Carolina kids are in early enrichment programs or the precise interest rate on your student loans, right down to the decimal.
Because you know what? It’s not a detail if it’s your kid. It’s not a detail if it’s your family. It’s a big deal and it should be a big deal to your president.
Now, I confess, I’ll never be the showman my opponent is and that’s okay with me.
Just look at the show he put on with Dr. Oz today. But I am going to deliver for you and your family just like I did for Sarah [sp] all those years ago with the Children’s Health Insurance Program that gave her the chance to be the extraordinary young woman she is.
And I’ll tell you something else. People accuse me of all kinds of things. You probably have seen that. But nobody ever accuses me of quitting and I will never give up. I’ll never walk away no matter how tough the going gets.
I’m actually asking Americans to hold me accountable for my ideas and hold my opponent accountable for his.
We don’t need a president who says the minimum wage is too high. We need a president who knows that Americans deserve a raise to get to a living wage.
We don’t need a president who wants to take away people’s health coverage. We need a president who wants everyone to have quality affordable health care.
And we don’t need a president who apparently thinks only married people deserve paid leave and only mothers ever stay home with the kids.
We don’t need someone who rushes out a half-baked plan just weeks before an election after decades of ignoring or putting down working moms.
We need a president who has spent years fighting for these issues, who has a plan to support all families in all their various shapes.
Ask yourselves which candidate you can count on to be on your side, respect your family, stand up and fight for you and your kids?
That is who you should vote for on Nov. 8th because as Michelle Obama said in her fabulous speech at the Democratic Convention, we go to the polls this November, the real choice isn’t between Democrat or Republican, it’s about who will have the power to shape our children for the next four years of their lives. It’s also about the kind of country we want to be and what we want to leave behind for future generations.
People have to decide – are we going to make our economy work for everyone or just those at the top? Are we going to bring people together or pit Americans against each other and rip our country apart? Are we going to work with our allies to keep us safe or are we going to put a loose cannon in charge who would risk everything generations of Americans have worked so hard to build?

Now, I have a lot of confidence in the American people and in our country.
My opponent keeps running us down saying we’re weak, a disaster, an embarrassment.
Every time he says things like that I think about Janelle and her strength in the face of cancer, or Mark and Sarah in the face of their health challenges, and that little boy in Flint who gets up everyday and goes to school even though he can’t drink the water.
See, my opponent has America all wrong. There’s nothing we can’t do when we come together as one nation, set big goals, and pursue them.
And the American dream is big enough for everyone to share in its promise.
So if you believe that the minimum wage should be a living wage, that no one who works full-time should have to raise their child in poverty, join us.
If you believe that every man, woman, and child in America has the right to affordable health care and women should be free to make our own health decisions, join us.
If you believe your working mother, wife, or sister deserves equal pay, then join us.
Get involved these last 55 days. Go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN – J-O-I-N – to 47246.
We need volunteers right here in North Carolina. We can’t do this without you.
And remember, the presidential race isn’t the only one this fall. We’ve got a lot of important state-wide races…
On Oct. 20th you can register and vote early at the same time at any one-stop early voting site in your county.
So the heat is on, spread the word, tell your friends, your family, your neighbors. If you share our vision for America’s future, come be part of helping us shape it.
We do not have a minute to lose. We have so many blessings. Now it’s our job to deliver on them, to make sure every single person and particularly every child, no matter who they are, what they look like or who they love, is part of the American dream now and way into the future.
Let that be our message. Let that be our mission.
Please come out and help us fight – fight for you, fight for our children, fight for our families.
Let’s make America all that it should be.
Thank you and God bless you!

Hillary Clinton:
Look, it’s great to be back on the trail, back in North Carolina.
I came to Greensboro as you heard to give a positive personal speech about my vision for the future of our country and why I so strongly believe we are actually stronger together because I want to give Americans something to vote for not just against.
With all the noise and distraction, it’s important to focus on what really matters and the real choice in this election.
This is about the kind of country we want to be, whether we’ll make the economy work for everybody and not just those at the top, whether we will bring people together or pit Americans against each other, whether we’ll work with our allies to keep us safe or put a loose cannon in charge, who would risk everything.
I’m going to close my campaign focused on opportunities for kids and fairness for families. It’s been the cause of my life. It will be the passion of my presidency.
We’re offering ideas not insults, plans that will make a real difference in people’s lives not prejudice and paranoia.
And as you know, my opponent is running a very different kind of campaign.
His latest target is a pastor in Flint, Michigan, who respectfully asked him not to use her pulpit for political attacks. He called her a nervous mess.
That’s not only insulting, it’s dead wrong. Rev. Faith Green Timmons is not a nervous mess; she’s a rock for her community in trying times. She deserves than that. And Flint deserves better. In fact, so does America.
So I’m going to keep working as hard as I can to lift up our country, not tear it apart.
I honestly believe there is so much more that unites us than divides us and I believe with all my heart the American dream is big enough for everyone to share in its promise.
So I’m determined to be a president for Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, for all Americans to really roll up our sleeves, solve our problems and make positive differences in people’s lives.
So with that, I’d be happy to answer your questions.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
…I’ve always said this was going to be a tight race. I’ve said it from the very beginning whether I was up, down. It didn’t matter.
I think those are the kinds of presidential elections that we have in America at this point in our history.
I’m very proud of the campaign that we have put together. I feel like we are in a strong position going into these last weeks. What matters is who registers to vote and who is motivated and mobilized to turn out to vote.
And I’m going to keep doing everything I can to deliver my message about what’s at stake in this election. And my campaign is going to continue to work hard everyday to turn out every voter we possibly can and that’s our goal and that’s our strategy.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
This has been such a terrible conflict and the humanitarian cost is incalculable.
I really applaud Secretary Kerry’s persistent efforts to try to reach some kind of an agreement with the Russians in order to create a period of cessation of hostilities, in order to get humanitarian assistance into Aleppo and other places within Syria.
I think whether or not this works is really up to the Russians. It is up to whether or not Vladimir Putin decides that it’s time to do what the Russians can do to bring this conflict into a period where there can be the beginning of political discussions, a hope for protective zone for people who are under relentless assault from the air, and a commitment to going after the terrorist groups that pose a threat to everyone.
So, I’m going to watch this closely. But at the end of it, it’s going to be determined by whether or not the Russians decide it’s in their interest to pursue this agreement.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
You know, my senior staffs knew and information was provided to a number of people.
And look, this was an ailment that many people just power through and that’s what I thought I would do as well. I didn’t want to stop and I didn’t want to quit campaigning and I certainly didn’t want to miss the 9/11 Memorial. As a Senator at that time, I consider it a sacred moment and I was determined to get there.
It didn’t work out. So I got the antibiotics up and going, got the rest that I needed, and we’re going on from there.

Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
No, look, I communicated with Tim. I talked to him again last night. He has been a great partner and he’s going to be a great vice president.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
We communicated. We communicated but I am not going to go into our personal conversations and I feel very comfortable and confident about our relationship and I really look forward to working with him closely.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
You know, my campaign has said that they could have been faster and I agree with that. I certainly expect them to be as focused and quick as possible.
But I have to say from my perspective, I thought I was going to be fine. And I thought that there wasn’t really any reason to make a big fuss about it.
And so I should have taken time off earlier. I didn’t. Now I have and I’m back on the campaign trail.
Question:
[Inaudible]
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I think it’s important to be constantly reaching out, listening to, learning from leaders.
And I was pleased to be able to find the time to meet with several of them, which I intend to do, to hear firsthand their perspective about what they see happened today, to answer their questions from what I think is happening, whether it’s in Syria or anywhere else.
There’s a lot going on in the world, and I have a longstanding set of relationships that go back not only to Secretary of State and Senator but back to First Lady and I think it’s important to tend to those relationships. And I won’t be able to have as many meetings because of the press of the campaign as I’ve had in prior years but I’m looking forward to the ones that we are scheduling.
Thank you all very much.

Good morning. I want to start by offering my full support to our state, local, and federal law enforcement as they continue to respond to the attacks in New York, New Jersey, and Minnesota and bring those responsible to justice.
I’ve talked with Mayor [Bill] De Blasio. Our team has been in close touch with authorities in New York. We know they’re doing everything they possibly can to keep us safe in this dangerous situation.
I’ve also spoken to the governor of Minnesota.
Like all Americans, my thoughts are with those who were wounded, their families and our brave first responders.
This threat is real but so is our resolve. Americans will not cower. We will prevail. We will defend our country and we will defeat the evil, twisted ideology of the terrorists.
I’m the only candidate in this race who has been part of the hard decisions to take terrorists off the battlefield.
And I’ve laid out a comprehensive plan to meet the evolving nature of this threat and take the fight to ISIS everywhere they threaten us, including online.
I’m grateful to have support and advice from a wide range of bipartisan national security leaders who’ve worked with both Democratic and Republican presidents.
When we met together earlier this month in New York, one of the points they emphasized was the need to support state and local law enforcement who act as our first line of defense, making sure they have the resources, the training and the intelligence they need to effectively prevent and respond to terror attacks. And this weekend’s events underscore how important that is.
We should also launch an intelligence surge to help identify and thwart attacks before they can be carried out.
We need to work more closely with Silicon Valley and other partners to counter terrorist propaganda and recruitment efforts online.
And it is crucial that we continue to build up trust between law enforcement and Muslim-American communities.
In the Middle East, we have to smash ISIS’s strongholds with an accelerated coalition air campaign, more support for Arab and Kurdish forces on the ground, and intense diplomatic efforts in Syria, Iraq and across the region.
Working closely with our allies and partners to keep us safe must be the top priority for our next commander-in-chief.
Later today, I’ll discuss the threat from terrorism with President Sisi of Egypt and other world leaders.
Most of all, I want to say this to my fellow Americans. Let us be vigilant but not afraid. We have faced threats before. If you see something or you hear something, report it immediately to local law enforcement authorities.
I know we will meet this new danger with the same courage and vigilance. We choose resolve, not fear.
We will not turn on each other or undermine our values. We’ll stand together because we are stronger together in the face of this threat and every other challenge.
I’d be glad to take some questions.

Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
Well, it is true that a suspect of interest has been identified and we need to do everything we can to support law enforcement as they track him down to determine what role, if any, he played in these events.
But let us remember, there are millions and millions of naturalized citizens in America from all over the world. There are millions of law-abiding, peaceful Muslim Americans.
This is the kind of challenge that law enforcement can be and is prepared to address, namely going after anyone who would threaten the United States.
So I am absolutely in favor of and have long been an advocate for tough vetting, for making sure that we don’t let people into this country – and not just people who come here to settle but we need a better visa system.
Let’s remember what happened on 9/11. These were not refugees who got on an airplane and attacked our city and our country.
So let’s not get diverted and distracted by the kind of campaign rhetoric we hear coming from the other side.
This is a serious challenge. We are well-equipped to meet it. And we can do so in keeping with smart law enforcement, good intelligence, and in concert with our values.
Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
…I think that the lone wolf problem is one that we have to invest more time and more resources into combatting.
When I met with the distinguished group of national security experts – as I said, both Democratic and Republican administration experiences – they made a very strong point that the recruitment and radicalization that goes on online has to be much more vigorously intercepted and prevented.
I have been saying this for quite some time and I believe it’s an important part of our strategy.
The other point they made is that the recruiters for ISIS and these other terrorist groups look for people who online demonstrate the mental profile – the level of paranoia, the level of delusion, the level of disappointment – that then is exploited by quite able terrorist recruiters.
So, we’ve got to do a much more intensive effort – and that’s why I mentioned Silicon Valley in my remarks – not only to take down terrorist propaganda but to do everything we can to intercept and prevent radicalization and recruitment.
And I think we are at the beginning of that, but there’s much more we need to do. And the government cannot do this without the close participation of tech companies and experts online who can give us the tools and lead us to those who are attempting to promote attacks like we’ve seen.

Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
…I don’t want to speculate but here’s what we know and I think it’s important for voters to hear this and weigh it in making their choice in November.
We know that a lot of the rhetoric that we’ve heard from Donald Trump has been seized on by terrorists, in particular ISIS, because they are looking to make this into a war against Islam rather than a war against jihadists, violent terrorists, people who number in the maybe tens of thousands, not the tens of millions. They want to use that to recruit more fighters to their cause by turning it into a religious conflict.
That’s why I’ve been very clear we’re going after the bad guys and we’re going to get them. But we’re not going to go after an entire religion and give ISIS exactly what it’s wanting in order for them to enhance their positions.
Secondly, we know that Donald Trump’s comments have been used online for recruitment of terrorists. We’ve heard that from former CIA Director Michael Hayden, who made it a very clear point when he said Donald Trump is being used as a recruiting sergeant for the terrorists.
We also know from the former head of our counter-terrorism center, Matt Olsen, that the kinds of rhetoric and language that Mr. Trump has used is giving aid and comfort to our adversaries.
Now look, as I said in my remarks, I’m the only candidate in this race who’s been part of the hard decisions to take terrorists off the battlefield.
What does that mean?
I was part of the national security team that worked with President Obama that developed strategies to fight the terrorists. Sometimes that involved direct kinetic action. Sometimes that involved working with allies and partners. Sometimes that involved capture.
I won’t get into classified information but I have sat at that table in the situation room. I’ve analyzed the threats. I’ve contributed to actions that have neutralized our enemies. I know how to do this, and I understand how we don’t want this to get even bigger than it already is.
So we’re going to stay focused on what will work and how we deploy a strategy that will protect America, work with our allies and partners to take ISIS down and have a stronger counter-terrorism effort online in order to defeat the ideology that stands behind these terrorist attacks.
Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
Well, it’s like so much else he says. It’s not grounded in facts. It’s meant to make some kind of demagogic point.
And the facts are pretty clear. You know that we still have challenges. That’s what I have been talking about throughout this campaign.
I am prepared to, ready to actually take on those challenges, not engage in a lot of, you know, irresponsible reckless rhetoric but to do the hard work as I’ve done before to put into place the strategies for local and state law enforcement, for an intelligence surge, for the kind of preventive actions that we need to take care at home and to intensify our efforts to defeat ISIS.
You don’t hear a plan from him. He keeps saying he has a secret plan. Well, the secret is he has no plan.
So let’s focus on what we really can do and what I’ve laid out is a path forward that will keep us safer, protect our country, and go after the terrorists to finally destroy them.
Thank you. Thank you, guys.

Good afternoon.
I’ve just finished meeting with a distinguished group of national security experts. Some served under a Republican president. Some under a Democrat. Some under both. And some in uniform.
They don’t agree on everything. But together they represent a great deal of expertise, experiences, and lessons learned.
I asked them to join me for a candid conversation about some of the most challenging issues facing our country because I believe that America’s national security must be the top priority for our next president.
To do that job, you need to constantly seek new information, new perspectives, test your assumptions, ask and answer hard questions.
That’s what today was about, and I’m grateful to these men and women for sharing their insights with me.
I hope and intend that our conversations will continue because as I’ve said many times I believe in a bipartisan foreign policy.
We won’t always see eye to eye but when it comes to questions of war, peace, and the safety of our country, we can’t let party affiliations stand between us.
We need to put partisanship aside and work together for the good of all of us.
And I know we can do it. I’ve seen it happen under both Republican and Democratic presidents. So that will be my goal if I’m elected this fall.
Today, our main conversation was, as you might expect, ISIS and other terrorist threats.
We discussed how ISIS is finding ways to convince young men around the world and some young women, including in our own country to get assault weapons or strap on bombs and kill large numbers of people.
And we talked specifically about a strategy to protect us from that threat here at home. We went into detail on what it will take to surge our intelligence, to help us detect and prevent attacks before they happen.
We also discussed methods to disrupt online recruitment so they’d stop reaching and radicalizing young people on the Internet.
And one of the points that many of the participants emphasized, which deserved a higher priority in a counter-terrorism strategy, is the role of local governments and community leaders here at home, who truly do act as our first line of defense.
While we protect the homeland though, we need to take the fight to ISIS.
That means smashing their strongholds, denying them safe havens, dismantling the global network of fighters’ financing and arms that supply these terrorists, which requires working closely with our allies.
It does not mean sending contingents of American combat troops to take and hold territory. That’s neither wise nor in the interests of the United States, and it is exactly what ISIS wants.
Instead, we have to hit them from the air and intensify support for local Arab and Kurdish partners on the ground.
I support deploying more special forces, enablers, and trainers as needed, increased surveillance, intelligence gathering, and reconnaissance.
And as I said earlier this week, I also believe it should be a top priority to take the leader of ISIS – Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi – off the battlefield just like we did with Osama bin Laden. That will help us focus our efforts and make it very clear that no one attacks the United States or inspires attacks without being brought to justice.
Here today we talked about what we need to do.
I would stand up a mission team to bring focus and priority to this effort.
We will devote the intelligence assets necessary combined with the capabilities of our allies and partners on the ground and the precise application of military force.
We know how to do this. We have models to draw from. It will be a paramount priority for me as president and it will send exactly the right message.

History tells us that we need an approach that’s comprehensive and deals with multiple overlapping conflicts in the region and along the entire arc of instability, from North Africa through the Middle East into Central Asia and beyond.
As we’ve been reminded in just the last 24 hours with reports of another nuclear test in North Korea, we face threats from many parts of the world.
Indeed, ISIS and North Korea’s quest for a nuclear weapon are not entirely unconnected. Because the greatest threat of all would be terrorists getting their hands on loose nuclear material.
So it’s vital we bring the world together to stop North Korea’s dangerous game.
In discussions of national security, it can be easy to get mired in the tactics or overly focused on the threats.
But let’s not lose sight of what this – this larger project of American leadership is all about. It is about creating more peace in our world, more prosperity, more human dignity. And that’s what we have to be also focused on everyday.
There were a number of very excellent suggestions about what we can and should be doing here at home to try to bring our American Muslim community much more closely and welcomed into the struggle against radicalization and recruitment, and I am anxious to follow up on the ideas and even some of the model programs that are currently under way.
I’m humbled to be supported in this race by a growing number of retired military leaders.
Earlier this week, 95 retired generals and admirals endorsed me for president, and in the past 48 hours another 15 have joined them.
So have people on both sides of the debates that have defined our foreign policy for the last 30 years.
Their support is an honor. I’m grateful for it.
But it’s also a signal that this election is different. I don’t want to rehash everything my opponent has said in this campaign but no conversation about our national security would be complete unless we acknowledge that the nominee on the other side promises to do things that will make us less safe.
National security experts on both sides of the aisle are chilled by what they’re hearing from the Republican nominee. That may be the number one reason why this election is the most important in our lifetimes.
So I’m not waiting until November. I’m bringing Democrats and Republicans together now because I plan to get right down to work on day one. The stakes are too high and the issues too serious for anything less than that level of preparedness.
Americans should be able to count on their president and commander in chief to provide rational, confident, and even-keeled leadership especially in tumultuous times like these.
So I’m very grateful to the men and women I met with today, experts with a broad range of understanding and willingness to share their insights, and I look forward to continuing to receive their advice in the days and weeks ahead.
So I’ll take just one or two questions.
Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
…I think it’s clear that the increasing threat posed by North Korea requires not only a re-thinking of the strategy but an urgent effort to convince the neighbors, most particularly China that this is not just a U.S. issue.
And I think we have an opening here that we haven’t had for the last several years that I intend to do everything that I can to take advantage of.
But we’re also going to support and equip our allies in the region with the missile defense systems that they require to protect themselves. That is not something that is of the North Koreans or the Chinese or the Russians in the region are particularly pleased about but what are the alternatives?
We are not going to let anyone who is a treaty ally and partner of ours be threatened and we are not going to let North Korea pursue a nuclear weapon with the ballistic missile capacity to deliver it to the United States territory. That is absolutely a bottom line.
And if other countries want to assist us in this effort, we welcome that and we will engage in intensive discussion as soon as possible.

Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
Well, the answer to the second question is yes, because we faced a similar problem in 2009.
As a Senator, I voted for every single sanction that was put before the Senate against Iran in our effort to try to prevent Iran from moving forward on a nuclear program. It didn’t stop them.
They built covert facilities. They mastered the nuclear fuel cycle. They were able to acquire and put into operation a significant number of centrifuges.
So our sanctions despite our best efforts were not enough. And although we have international sanctions against North Korea, some of which I helped to negotiate when I was there, they aren’t enough either, and they aren’t enough for the very same reason I was responding to Amy about.
They’re not enough because China has not yet made the decision that it needs to make, that North Korea poses a threat to the region and poses a threat to the kind of stable border relationship that China has always valued with North Korea.
So we are going to continue to look at how we tighten sanctions because I do think there’s role for sanctions because the regime in North Korea lives off of goods and materials that could be smuggled in to keep their lifestyle and their love of luxury going.
So I think there’s a lot more we can do, and it will be on the top of my list in dealing with China on how we’re going to prevent what could very well be a serious conflict with North Korea.
Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
…You know, you don’t talk about leverage until you’ve actually produced leverage, and I believe that we do have leverage with China, and I believe based on my extensive discussions when I was Secretary of States that there’s even a conversation starting within China about how to handle the changes in the North Korean regime.
China has no interest in seeing the kind of build-up, which we are going to be doing. And I will stress this and underline it.
We will not leave our friends and allies unprotected. And we will do everything we can to put in the most effective missile defense system against anything that North Korea does.
The Chinese are not happy about that. We have a lot of leverage and we’re going to exercise that leverage.
And we’re going to put together the kind of negotiations that I think can lead to a beginning of containing and controlling the behavior of the North Korean government, which has the danger of affecting everyone, including China…
Question:
[Omitted]
Hillary Clinton:
…This just becomes more and more of a reality television show. It’s not a serious presidential campaign. And it is beyond one’s imagination to have a candidate for president praising a Russian autocrat like Vladimir Putin and throwing his lot in with him in the way that he has approved of his wish list and not even really understanding what Putin has already done, like invading and occupying Crimea.
…We are living in challenging times and that’s certainly was reinforced by the excellent discussions that we had today.
No one who wants to assume the responsibility of being president and commander-in-chief should be making the kind of reckless and dangerous statements and identifying with a regime that has some aggressive tendencies towards our interests and our values, our friends and allies.
So can I say I was surprised? I’m not sure anything surprises us anymore. But I was certainly disappointed that someone running for president of the United States would continue this unseemly identification with and praise of the Russian president, including on Russian president.
Thank you all.

Hello, Orlando!
Wow, thank you all so much! I am so happy to be back and I want to thank all of you for being here today at the Frontline Outreach Youth and Family Center, which does so much good work in the community…
I want thank Anastasia for that introduction. Didn’t she do an amazing job?
I first met Anastasia when she was nine-years-old. She raised her hand at a town hall and she said, “My twin sister can’t speak. Because of that, they put her in a separate class, apart from the rest of the kids. But she can communicate with a computer, and she’s very smart and would do just as well as anyone else if the principal and teachers would just give her a chance.”
I was just blown away by this nine-year-old girl, her confidence and how much she loved her sister.
So Anastasia and I have stayed in touch over the years.
When she grew up, she became an intern in the Senate. I was so proud of her speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. And I’m very excited that she’s here with us today.
I also want to thank Orlando. It’s great to be back in this wonderful city with all of you. You’ve been through a lot this year. And what has been so notable is you’ve responded with grace.
You’ve shown the world what Orlando is made of – strength, love, and kindness.
This is something we could all use more of right now.
I’m here today to talk about how to make our economy work for everyone.
But first, I need to say something about two very upsetting incidents that took place over the past few days.
First, an unarmed man named Terence Crutcher [sp] was shot and killed by a police officer in Tulsa.

You know, I want to just stress that our campaign is about the fundamental belief that in America every person no matter what you look like, who you are, who you love, you should have the chance to go as far as your hard work and dreams will take you.
And that is the basic bargain that made our country great, and it’s our job to make sure it’s there for you and future generations.
Building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, is the central challenge of our time.
And I take it personally because I’m the proud product of the American middle class.
My grandfather started working in a lace mill in Scranton, Pennsylvania when he was just a boy and worked there for 50 years.
Thanks to him, my dad was able to go to college and start his own small business printing fabrics for draperies.
And because of my dad and my mom, I could head out into the world and follow my dreams.
Every American family should be able to write a similar story for themselves and their children.
And history has shown us – our history has shown us that the strongest growth in our economy is inclusive broad-based growth when everyone can contribute to our prosperity and share in its rewards.
Now, here’s just one example. The flood of women into the American workforce over the past several decades was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth.
But, as women’s labor participation has slowed in recent years due in part to our failure to provide family-friendly policies like paid leave and affordable child care, so our economic growth wasn’t as strong as it could have been.
Women who want to work deserve to work. And whenever they are denied that opportunity, it’s not fair to them and we all lose out.
In a competitive 21st century global economy, we cannot afford to leave talent on the sidelines.
When we leave people out or write them off, we not only short-change them and their dreams, we short-change our country and our own futures.
That’s one reason why I care so much about supporting working parents.
It’s one reason why I’m such a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform because bringing millions of undocumented workers into the formal economy will decrease abuse and exploitation and it will increase our economic growth and our tax base.
It is estimated that if we did this, despite what you hear from the other side, we would increase our gross domestic product by an estimated $700 billion in 10 years. Now, we need that.
It’s also one reason why we’ve got to break down barriers of systemic racism, including under-investment that have held communities of color back for generations. That’s part of building an inclusive economy too.
And it’s why I believe we need to do more to help young people who were left behind in the wake of the Great Recession find those strategies and opportunities that will get them moving ahead again.
And we’ve got to help older Americans who’ve been displaced by automation and outsourcing in our changing economy and too often training and re-training doesn’t work as it should.

Then a man named Keith Lamont Scott was shot and killed by a police officer in Charlotte.
I’m sending condolences and prayers to their families. I know a lot of you are as well.
There is still much we don’t know about what happened in both incidents. But we do know that we have two more names to add to a list of African-Americans killed by police officers in these encounters.
It’s unbearable, and it needs to become intolerable.
We also saw the targeting of police officers in Philadelphia last week. And last night in Charlotte, 12 officers were injured in demonstrations following Keith Lamont Scott’s death.
Everyday police officers across our country are serving with extraordinary courage, honor, and skill.
We saw that again this weekend in New York and New Jersey and Minnesota. Our police handled those terrorist attacks exactly right and they likely saved a lot of lives.
I’ve spoken to many police chiefs and law enforcement leaders who are as deeply concerned as I am and deeply committed as I am to reform. Why? Because they know it is essential for the safety of our communities and our officers.
We are safer when communities respect the police and police respect the communities.
I’ve also been privileged to spend a lot of time with mothers who’ve lost children and young people who feel that as far as their country’s concerned, their lives seem disposable.
We’ve got to do better and I know we can.
And if I’m elected president, we will. And we will do it exactly together, which is the only way it can be done.
Look, I know I don’t have all the answers. I don’t know anyone who does.
But this is certain: Too many people have lost their lives who shouldn’t have.
Sabrina Fulton has become a friend of mine. Her son, Trayvon Martin, was killed not far from where we are today.
Sabrina says this is about saving our children, and she’s absolutely right.
We need to come together, work together, white, black, Latino, Asian, all of us to turn the tide, stop the violence, build the trust.
We need to give all of our kids no matter who they are the chance to grow up safe and healthy in their communities and in our country.
Now, there are so many issues we need to take on together, and that’s why we’re here today.
Because in just 48 days – can you believe it? – 48 days, Americans will go to the polls and choose our next president.
Well, I hope so. I hope so.

If you don’t have a four-year degree, if you haven’t really had the chance to upgrade your skills over the years, it’s hard to just make a course correction.
We need to have apprenticeship and community college and technical programs starting in high school and moving all the way up to older workers.
Whether you’re trying to start your career or you’ve spent decades contributing to our economy, you deserve better.
Now, these are some of the elements of my plan for an inclusive economy, and I’m going to hold up the book Tim Kaine and I have put out because we’ve actually put in one place all of our plans.
You see, we have this old fashioned idea that if we’re asking you to support us, we should tell you what we’re going to do. Right?
And today, I want to focus on one area that hasn’t gotten enough attention. It concerns a group of Americans who are too often invisible, overlooked, and under-valued, who have so much to offer but are given too few chances to prove it.
Now, that’s been true for a long time and we have to change it. I’m talking about people with disabilities.
Men and women, boys and girls, who have talents, skills, ideas, and dreams for themselves and their families just like anybody else.
Whether they can participate in our economy and lead rich full lives that are as healthy and productive as possible is a reflection on us as a country.
And right now in too many ways, we are falling short.
We’ve got to face that and do better for everyone’s sake. Because this really does go to the heart of who we are as Americans.
I intend this to be a vital aspect of my presidency. I want to bring us together as a nation to recognize the humanity and support the potential of all of our people.
And I want you to hear this because this is not well-known. Nearly one in five Americans lives with a disability.
Now, some of those disabilities are highly visible. Some much harder to notice.
If you don’t think you know someone with a disability, I promise you, you do.
But their disability is just one part of who they are.
Across the country, people with disability are running businesses, teaching students, caring for our loved ones.
They’re holding public office, making breakthrough scientific discoveries, reporting the news, and creating art that inspires and challenges us.
They’re veterans whose service and sacrifice have protected our freedom and kept our country safe. They’re working in the White House.
Just last year, a young woman named Leah Katz-Hernandez became the first West Wing receptionist who is deaf.
So when world leaders come to the White House, the person who greets them is Leah.

Think of the message that sends about how our nation sees the talent in everyone.
And Americans with disability are working on presidential campaigns. I know because several of my staff and advisors have disabilities and they’re doing phenomenal work. I’m grateful to them every single day.
And people all over America would say the same about their boss, their colleague, their employee, their family member with a disability.
Now over the past few decades, our country has taken leaps forward not just in recognizing the humanity and dignity of people with disabilities but in making long overdue changes in our schools, workplaces, and communities so everyone can be part of our shared American life.
Even so, not that long ago, if you had a disability, if you couldn’t see, couldn’t walk, live with dyslexia or muscular dystrophy or some other health issue, that one fact was allowed to define your entire life.
Because of that and that alone, the world was closed to you – not all of it, not for everyone but for most people. Basic essential things that others could do you couldn’t and never would and that was that.
I saw this for myself as Anastasia said years ago when I was just starting out as a young lawyer working for the Children’s Defense Fund, where my first assignment was to figure out why so many American kids weren’t in school.
We looked at census track numbers and we said, “Okay, how many young people between 5 and 18 live in this census track?” Then we’d look at school enrollment numbers and there’d be a gap and we would say, “Wait a minute, where are the kids? Why aren’t they in school?”
I went door-to-door along with people across our country going into different communities. I was in New Bedford, Massachusetts. We saw a notable disparity there and I soon realized that part of the problem was kids were stuck at home because of disabilities.
There were kids who were hard of hearing, kids with intellectual disabilities.
I remember one little girl in a wheelchair who was smart, curious, desperate to go to school but that chair held her back. Not all schools had ramps or accessible bathrooms. Most teachers and aids weren’t trained to help her so she didn’t get to go. It felt like the world had said to her, “Sorry, kid, your life just isn’t going to be worth very much.”
And she and her family weren’t rich. They weren’t powerful. So what could they do about it?
That little girl reminded me of another little girl – my mother. She didn’t face the same challenges but she too was blocked from a full and happy childhood, abandoned by her own parents, raised by grandparents who didn’t want her, and ended up on her own when she was just 14 supporting herself as a housemaid.
But then something finally went her way. The woman she worked for encouraged her to finish high school. And that family showed my mother what a happy family look like.
After many lonely years, it was a start of a better life.
The core lesson from her childhood was that none of us gets through life alone. We all have to look out for each other and lift each other up.
And I remember that sitting with that little girl in a wheelchair.

My colleagues and I at the Children’s Defense Fund along with others gathered the facts and we built a coalition of activists and families across America. And together, we helped convince Congress to pass a groundbreaking law saying that children with disabilities have the same right to be educated in public school just like any other kids.
We opened the door to schools and then some years later, I was so excited when Americans With Disabilities Act finally passed 26 years ago. It was bipartisan.
The notion that workplaces and public spaces belong to everyone was something that Democrats and Republicans both supported.
And by the way, I’m proud that some of the Democrats and Republicans who passed that landmark bill are supporting my campaign because they know where my heart is on this.
As Secretary of State, I appointed the first ever special adviser for international disability rights because I wanted America to stand up for the rights and dignity of people with disabilities all over the world.
And over the years, I’ve spent a lot of time working for kids with disabilities.
In addition to Anastasia who spoke at the convention, another young man, Ryan Moore, also spoke there.
I first met Ryan when he was seven years old. I was fighting for health care reform.
He was born with a rare form of dwarfism. But he never let that stop him. He’s had so many surgeries. We’ve lost count of them. But his family was always there for him and he was the advocate for himself as he got older.
Now he’s a college graduate, working in the technology department of his local school district. And he’s just one of the most optimistic people you’ll ever meet.
Listening to Ryan and Anastasia tell their stories at the convention this July made me think about all the people who never got the chance, never got the chance to get the education, let alone go to college, become forces for change.
And I thought about all the mothers and fathers across America who love their children more than anything and want so badly for them to have every opportunity that they deserve to have in America.
I’ll never forget something that the actor Christopher Reeves said. Some of you may be too young to know who he was. He was a huge star. He played Superman. He was unbelievably good-looking.
He and his wonderful wife were friends of mine. And then he was paralyzed in a horse-riding accident.
He once said he had been thinking about a phrase that comes up a lot in our politics – family values.
“Since my accident,” he said, “I’ve found a definition that seems to make sense. I think it means that we’re all family and we all have value.”
I couldn’t agree more.
We’ve come a long way since the fall of 1973 when I was going door-too-door talking to kids and families.
But make no mistake, we still have a lot more work to do. We can’t be satisfied not when over 60% of adults with disability aren’t in the workforce, not when businesses are allowed to pay employees with disability a sub-minimum wage, not when people with physical and intellectual disabilities are still subjected to stigma and discrimination every single day.

We’ve got to [create] an inclusive economy that welcomes people with disability, values their work, treats them with respect.
Now, one advocate after another has told me the same thing. We don’t want pity. We want paychecks. We want the chance to contribute.
As president, I’m going to give them that chance.
First, we’re going to focus on jobs and incomes. I’m going to fight to give more Americans with disability the chance to work alongside those without disability and do the same job for the same pay and benefits.
People with disability shouldn’t be isolated. They should be given the chance to work with everyone else.
And we’re going to eliminate the sub-minimum wage, which is a vestige from an ugly, ignorant past.
Good work deserves fair pay no matter who you are.
Second, we’re going to work with our colleges and universities to make them more accessible to students with disabilities.
To have a truly inclusive economy, we need a truly inclusive education system. So let’s raise our standards. For too long, accessibility has been an after-thought. Let’s make it our priority in our curriculums, our classrooms, and the technologies that our students use.
It’s like what Anastasia said about her sister – she can communicate through a computer. Then let’s make sure kids who can communicate that way have the opportunity to do so.
Third, we’re going to partner with businesses and other stakeholders to ensure those living with a disability can get hired and stay hired.
As part of that, we’ll launch a new effort we’re calling Autism Works to help people with autism succeed in the workplace.
Fourth, let’s build on the success of the Americans with Disabilities Act by finally ratifying the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It has the strong backing of leaders across the political spectrum and it’s a chance to show American values and American leadership.
And I have to tell you, you know, ever since I was First Lady, I’ve had the great privilege of traveling the world on behalf of our country. When I was Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries.
And one of the things that I have noticed is how far behind many countries are in how they treat people with disabilities.
Very often people with disabilities from the time they are babies and toddlers…are locked away, basically forgotten.
I want us, since we have been the leader in this area to get that ratified and then to demonstrate to other countries what we have done and are doing to give dignity and opportunity to people with disabilities.
Now, these ideas are just a start. We’re working with advocates to come up with even more.
If you’ve got an idea, we want to hear it. Go to HillaryClinton.com and leave your ideas because we are really welcoming this debate.
This issue is very close to my heart.
I’ve always believed that the ultimate test of our society is more than the size of our economy or the strength of our military. It’s how we treat our fellow human beings, especially the most vulnerable among us.

And on this front especially, I intend for my presidency to move our country forward.
Together, we will make our economy and our country more welcoming to people with disabilities because we all win when everyone gets to share in the American dream.
Now, if you want some proof, let me tell you this story.
It’s a story of a woman named Freia David. Now, some of you may have read about Freia in the Boston Globe. I’ve carried a copy of that article around with me because I loved it so much.
Freia has Down Syndrome. When she was 21, she got her first job at the local McDonald’s. Her mother was a little worried, as any mother would be. She wondered, “Would Freia be able to handle being independent? Could she handle the job? Could she even pass the six month training program?”
Well, not everyone in her class passed. But Freia did.
And then she excelled at that job for 32 years. Her colleagues loved her and she loved them.
The restaurant became such a home to her that she’d bring her family there on off days just to hang out.
Earlier this year, Freia began to show signs of early onset dementia. She knew that meant she had to stop working. But 32 years is a pretty good run, isn’t it? It broke her heart.
One thing that made it a little better is the whole staff threw a party in her honor. Her family hoped that a few people might show up and in the end nearly 100 people did – customers and colleagues and friends from over the years. The party lasted three hours.
And at one point, one of Freia’s former managers asked for everyone’s attention. She turned to Freia and she said, “We love you. We appreciate you. We respect you. And we are all better people for having you in our lives.”
My friends, after years of hard work and treating people right, isn’t that what we all want to hear? Isn’t that America at our best?
We don’t thrive on tearing each other apart or separating ourselves. We know we are stronger together. We believe in equality and dignity for all.
And when we fall short, we strive to do better, not to blame and scapegoat but to improve ourselves, to move toward becoming that more perfect union that our founders hoped for.
This election is a chance for us to move still closer to that goal, to make sure everyone can contribute to a growing and prospering America, to say loudly and clearly, in this country, no one’s worthless, no one’s less than, we’re all of value.
In the United States of America, the greatest country in the world, we believe everyone is created equal.
And you know what else we believe? We all believe love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

Hello CHCI!
It is so great to be back here with so many friends and to see so many young people here because that fits the theme this year – educate, engage, vote.
And I think of better marching orders for the next 54 days.
And anyone who just heard the congresswoman knows we cannot be on the sidelines.
This is the most consequential election in our lifetimes.
I want to recognize the institute for all you do to inspire the next generation of Latino leaders.
Last year, I had the chance to spend time with some of the CHCI interns and fellows. It really was like seeing the future of America in one room.
I can’t wait to see everything that they’ve achieved, and I can’t wait if I’m fortunate enough to be president to put some of them to work!
And I want to thank all my friends in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. You fight every single day to lift up the Latino community when the cameras are rolling and when the cameras are off, at home in your districts and here in Washington.
And no one understands better than you the pivotal moment we’re at right now, not just for Latinos but for our country.
My friends in the caucus have traveled to every battleground state, registered voters. You stayed focused no matter what kind of outlandish and offense comments we have heard from my opponent and his supporters.
By the way, I personally think a taco truck on every corner sounds absolutely delicious.
Now, here’s a confession. Running for president is never easy. But it shouldn’t be, right?
But tonight, I have the ultimate challenge speaking after President Obama. He’s always a tough act to follow in more ways than one.
I for one don’t think the president gets the credit he deserves for rescuing our economy from another Great Depression.
Think of what we’ve achieved these last eight years.
American businesses have created 15 million new jobs since the recession.
20 million Americans have health coverage. And no one has seen a bigger drop in uninsured rates under the Affordable Care Act than Latino Americans.
We got more good news this week. A report came out showing that poverty is going down and incomes for American families are going up.

Latino families have seen the biggest increase of all.
Now, that doesn’t mean we rest on our laurels by any stretch. Our work is far from finished.
But I am more confident than ever that our best days are still ahead of us.
I believe with all my heart that the American dream is alive and it’s big enough for everyone to share its promise.
That doesn’t mean that lots of people are still not hurting because I know that they are.
And when you hear a presidential candidate spewing bigotry and hate, it’s easy to get discouraged.
But we’re here because we know this election is a choice between not just two people but two very different visions for America’s future.
Either we’re going to make our economy work for everyone or just those at the top.
Either we’re going to fear our differences or embrace and celebrate our diversity.
Either we’re going to pit Americans against each other and deepen the divides or we’re going to be stronger together.
Today, as you know, we’re in the midst of Hispanic Heritage Month.
In classrooms across America, children will study Dolores Huerta and Cesar Chavez, Julian and Joaquin Castro, and Justice Sotomayor, Roberto Clemente and Laurie Hernandez, Gloria Estefan and Lin Manuel Miranda and countless others.
Names we know and names we might not know but every one of whom has enriched this country for generations, whether you’re Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Latin American, Afro Latino, whether your family’s just arrived or has been here since before the United States even existed.
You’re not strangers. You’re not intruders. You’re our neighbors, our colleagues, our friends, our families. You make our nation stronger, smarter, more creative.
And I want you to know that I see you and I am with you.
And time and again, we have seen that when we invest in the community, when we make it possible for Latinos to get the health care you need, get the education you desire, compete for jobs, start new businesses, pursue your dreams, all of America benefits.
As I said this afternoon in North Carolina, we are in the final stretch of this election, and I intend to close my campaign the way I began my career – fighting for kids and families. That’s been the cause of my life. It will be the passion of my presidency.

So tonight, I want to mention two things I’ll do in the first 100 days of my administration to help families in every corner of America.
First, we do need to create an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top.
There’s something wrong when Latinos are 17% of our country’s population but hold only 2% of its wealth.
We’ve got to work together to connect more Latinos with good jobs that pay good wages, with more opportunities to get the skills they need, to go to college, to launch new ventures, to build wealth that can be passed on to your kids and your grandkids.
So we’re going to make in my first 100 days the biggest investment in new good-paying jobs since World War II. Jobs in infrastructure, manufacturing, technology, innovation, clean energy.
And we’re going to cut red tape and taxes and expand access to capital for small businesses, including the Latino-owned small businesses that create so many jobs and so much growth in communities everywhere.
And I want to give a particular shout-out to Latina small business owners. Not everyone knows this but you are among the fastest growing group of entrepreneurs in America.
And we’re going to put families first with new solutions that reflect the way people and work today.
Supporting families with paid family leave, earned sick days, and affordable child care isn’t a luxury; it’s a necessity.
When families are strong, America is strong.
And that brings me to another important family issues. In those first 100 days, I will send a proposal for comprehensive immigration reform to the Congress.
My proposal will keep families together and it will include a path to citizenship.
Now, I know this isn’t the first time you’ve heard it. In fact, people have been making the same promise for more than a decade.
But I believe with all my heart that some things are too important to give up on.
I’ve been called a lot of things. I’ve never been called a quitter.
And in this election, we have a chance to show that comprehensive immigration reform isn’t just the smart thing to do. It’s what the American people demand.
And you know how we’ll show that? Well, I hope to have a Democratic Congress next January.
But no matter what, on my first day in office, I will reach out to Republicans and say “This is your chance to help millions of families and show that your party – the party of Lincoln – is better than Donald Trump.”
And while we’re fighting for comprehensive immigration reform, we’re going to keep families together.
When the deadlocked Supreme Court put DAPA and expanded DACA on hold for 5 million immigrants, it was devastating to millions of families.
But the court didn’t actually rule on the substance of the case.

And as I’ve said repeatedly, I believe DAPA and expanded DACA are squarely within the president’s authority, and I will protect them and keep fighting for them.
But in addition to defending DAPA and DACA, there’s more we can do.
We need a simple, straightforward system where other people with sympathetic cases who are contributing to their communities can make their case and be eligible for deferred action too…[inaudible]…and report extreme labor abuses.
And we won’t stop there. We’re going to end family detention, close private detention facilities, and stop the raids and round-ups.
No child should have to say good-bye to their parents every morning not knowing if their mom or dad will be there when they get home…
Now, I know this has been a very long road and we wouldn’t be where we are today without the persistence and the quiet courage of families in every state of our union.
And we certainly wouldn’t be here without the bravery of the young men and women who have risked their very place in the United States by coming forward and fighting for their own future and the future of millions of others. They helped change the conversation.
And when President Obama created DACA, it changed their lives.
Right now, 750,000 undocumented young people in America are going to school, working, and planning for their future. They’re DREAMers in much more than name.
I’ve met so many. I’ve listened to their stories. They’ve done everything we’ve asked for them and made our country stronger in return.
So when Donald Trump promises to rip that all away on day one, when he promises to round up and deport all of the 16 million people living and working among us, including American citizen children who were born here to parents who are undocumented, these are the faces I see.
I picture Astrid Silva, who I met in Las Vegas. Many of you know her story. She came to this country from Mexico at the age of four with nothing but a doll, a cross, and the dress she was wearing. Now she’s in her 20’s advocating for the rights of immigrants everywhere.
I picture a young man I never met whose high school teacher wrote me a few months ago to share his story. His teacher told me that this former student was funny, enthusiastic, and patriotic. He played the drums in the school marching band, and after graduation in 2005, proudly enlisted in the U.S. Army. Before shipping off to Iraq, he stopped by the school so everyone could see him in his new uniform.

He was, his teacher wrote, “as respectful and as optimistic as any student who ever entered my classroom.” He was also a DREAMer, brought here as an undocumented child. He loved America, and hoped one day to earn his citizenship.
But in April 2007 while on a mission in Baghdad, he was killed by an improvised explosive device. He was just 19.
The Army called him a hero and he was posthumously granted the American citizenship he’d always wanted.
All these years later, his teacher still treasures his memory, and this teacher wanted me to know – he wanted me to know that despite what Donald Trump may say, immigrants are not rapists and criminals.
The truth is this young man may not have been born here but he represented the best values of our country.
We teach our children that America is one nation, under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Not just for people who look a certain way or worship a certain way but for all.
Everywhere I go, people tell me how concerned they are by the extreme policies and divisive rhetoric they’ve heard from my opponent, from the racist lie about Mexican immigrants that launched his presidential campaign, to his racist attack on a federal judge.
And every time we think he hit rock bottom, he sinks even lower.
His latest target – a minister in Flint, Michigan, who respectfully asked him not to use her pulpit for political attacks. He called her a nervous mess. How insulting. How dead wrong.
Rev. Faith Green Timmons is not a nervous mess; she’s a rock for her community in trying times and she deserves better and so does America.
And again today, he did it again. He was asked one more time, “Where was President Obama born?” And he still wouldn’t say Hawaii. He still wouldn’t say America.
This man wants to be our next president? When will he stop this ugliness, this bigotry?
Now, he’s tried to reset himself and his campaign many times. This is the best he can do. This is who he is.
And so we need to decide who we are. If we just sigh and shake our heads and accept this, then what does that tell our kids about who we are?

We need to stand up and repudiate this divisive rhetoric. We need to stop him conclusively in November in an election that sends a message that even he can hear.
We need to set the kind of example we want for ourselves and our children and our grandchildren.
Parents and teachers are already worried about what they’re calling the Trump effect.
Bullying and harassment are on the rise in our schools, especially targeting students of color, Muslims, and immigrants.
At a high school basketball game in Indiana, white students held up Trump signs and taunted Latino players on the opposing team with chants of “Build the wall” and “Speak English”.
Donald Trump is running the most divisive campaigns of our lifetimes. His message is you should be afraid – afraid of people whose race and ethnicity is different or whose religious faith is different or who were born in a different country.
There’s no innuendo or dog whistles anymore. It’s all right out there in the open now.
So we’ve got to come back twice as strong and twice as clear.
Just this week, a mother in Florida wrote to me about her 11-year-old son, Francisco. He’s proud to be American, Colombian, Ecuadorian, and Puerto Rican. As he calls it, a potluck of Hispanic heritage.
And Francisco has been following this election very closely, his mother told me. He loves his “Love trumps hate” pin everyday and refuses to take it off.
When his father warned him that might make him a target for bullies, Francisco looked his father in the eye and said, “I was always told to stand up for myself and what I believe in and I believe Trump is wrong.”
And good for you, Francisco. That’s what we have to do in this election.
And that’s what so many of you are doing already – standing up to the bullying and bigotry wherever it comes from. Together, we must send this resounding message and we need to inspire a level of turnout that will help us win up and down the ticket.
We’ve set an ambitious goal of registering and committing 3 million people to vote in this election that would not have otherwise voted and we can’t do it without you.
Nearly half of Latinos in America are under 35 and we need you to show up and make your voices heard in this election.
So we’re going to keep asking for your help, keep hitting the campaign trail.
Please talk to your friends, your neighbors, your community, everyone you see between now and Nov. 8th. Tell them to go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN to 47246 to get involved.
This election is too important for anyone to sit on the sidelines as we heard from Congresswoman Sanchez.
So let’s stand up for a future where we put families first, where we build bridges not walls, and yes together we can prove love trumps hate.
Thank you all very much!

Thank you! Thank you all so much! It is great being here on this stage at UNH with my friend, Bernie Sanders, one of the most passionate champions for equality and justice that I have ever seen and someone who I am looking forward to working with to get the kind of agenda through our Congress that will begin to make our country stronger by providing the kind of support that working families and middle class families so richly deserve.
You know, Bernie’s campaign energized so many young people – some of you in this crowd.
And there is no group of Americans who have more at stake in this election than young Americans because so much of what will happen will affect your lives, your jobs, the kind of country we are, the kind of future we want to build together.
I’m proud of the primary campaign that Bernie and I ran. We ran a campaign about issues, not insults.
And when it was over, we began to work together to try to figure out how we could take the issues we agree on and come together, knowing we are stronger together, to come up with specific policies in education, in health, and so much else.
Thank you, Bernie. Thank you for your leadership and thank you support in this campaign.
Now, we’re going to need some help in Washington, and I hope New Hampshire will send your now Governor Maggie Hassan to Washington as your Senator.
And I sure hope you will send Carol Shea-Porter back to Washington.
Isn’t this one of the strangest elections you’ve ever seen? I really sometimes don’t know what to make of it. Standing on that debate stage the other night, I was especially thinking about that.
And look, I’ve been very clear about what I want to do if I’m fortunate enough to be elected president.
And Americans increasingly are zeroing in on the fact that we’re not only electing a president, we’re electing a commander-in-chief. We’re looking to see who can protect our country and provide steady and strong leadership around the world.
I was very honored today to earn the endorsement of John Warner, a retired Republican Senator, World War II veteran, former Secretary of Navy who served under two Republican presidents.

I served with him on the Senate Armed Services Committee and I have the deepest respect for his patriotism and it’s a great honor. He’s never endorsed a Democrat for president before.
And I’m also very grateful that a number of Republicans and Independents here in New Hampshire have announced their support for this campaign.
In fact, it is really an extraordinary honor that 150 Republicans here in New Hampshire are supporting this campaign because they understand how high the stakes are.
The next 40 days will determine the next 40 years.
So I’m going to close my campaign the way I started my public service and my career – fighting for kids and families. That’s been the cause of my life and it will be the mission of my presidency.
And when you go to vote in November…it’s not just my name on the ballot. Every issue you care about – think about it because in effect it’s on the ballot too. It’s whether or not we continue to fight climate change or we give into denial
This is a big deal.
I never thought when I gave my acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention that I would have to put in the following sentence, “I believe in science.” And climate change is real. It’s serious. And we have to be united and committed in addressing it.
I never thought I’d hear someone running for president, my opponent, who says he wants to appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn marriage equality and turn the clock back on LGBT Americans, overturn a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions and reverse that fundamental right, and so much more.
So there’s a lot at stake, and that’s why some of the analysts are saying more Americans will vote in this election than ever before. We had more people watching that debate than any presidential debate before.
And that’s why we have to focus on what we want to do because I want to make a difference in your lives and one of the biggest issues that I heard about throughout the campaign, that I hear about from every corner of our country is how much an education costs.
Bernie’s absolutely right. I remember, you know, when I went to college, my dad who was a small businessman, he had saved up money but I had to work. I had to work through college, work during the school year, work during summers. But that was okay. We were able to put it together. That wasn’t so much that it endangered me or my family’s financial future.
And then I decided to go to law school and my dad said, “Well, I can’t help you. We’re done. We can’t help you.”
So I kept working. I got a small scholarship but then I took out loans. And I paid those loans back.
But I was lucky because I signed up for a program that gave me the opportunity to pay my loans back as a percentage of my income, not a fixed interest rate. That’s why I could go to work for the Children’s Defense Fund. I think I made $14,000 a year as I recall.
I could have never have done that if I had had the kind of interest rates that so many young people now are facing. It’s absolutely wrong, and it has undermined the fundamental right to pursue your dreams, to have that education, to get those opportunities that you so rightly deserve.

Now, New Hampshire has the highest proportion of students with debt in the country, and the second highest average debt per student.
As a student I met here in New Hampshire said, “Going to college should be hard but paying for college shouldn’t be so hard that it prevents you from getting your education.”
Indeed, here in New Hampshire, we’ve got so many young people graduating with debt who aren’t able to get started in their careers, aren’t able to do the jobs like I could do because they have to get a job that pays as much as possible to begin paying their debt down.
So we should and we will make public colleges tuition-free for families earning less than $125,000 a year.
And if you already have student debt like so many students have here in New Hampshire, we will help you refinance it.
It is absolutely outrageous that you cannot refinance student debt, and it is even worse that you’re being charged interest rates that are so much higher than anything anybody else is paying to buy a house, to buy a car, to borrow money for a business.
I don’t know how we got to where we are but we are going to fix it. This is wrong. It’s wrong for students, it’s wrong for families, and it’s wrong for our country.
I also have met a lot of young people who want to start a business. They want to be entrepreneurs. It’s the classic American story – start that business in the garage or the basement. Get going. But they can’t get credit because they have student debt. Nobody will help them out no matter how good the idea is.
So we’re going to put a moratorium so you don’t have to pay your student debt back for a couple of years while you try to get your business started and you get the chance to get the credit you need.
We’re also going to provide loan forgiveness for people willing to go into public service or national service.
And in Florida on Friday, I’ll give a speech on why that’s so important.
Now, when you add it up, our plan will help millions of people save thousands of dollars.
Our campaign has built a tool to help you see how our college plan will actually help you, not in general but really specifically. You – the situation you’re in.
To check it out, go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator.
Now, we have an example right here and this presentation is what you can see when you go to our website. You can say I have student debt. You can say I’m planning for college. You can put in what your annual household income is, how much you will save, and we are trying to make it as specific as possible because I don’t want anybody to miss out on what this plan can do for you.
You can choose whether you have student debt. I met a young woman just yesterday in North Carolina, who said, “Nobody really explained to me and my family what I was getting into.” I hear that so much.
You know, these financial aid forms, one’s called FAFSA, it takes forever to fill out and at the end of it, you really don’t know what it means?
Well, we’re going to be really explicit. You know, we do have technology in America and we ought to use it more to help people understand what they’re getting into and to provide alternatives so that they don’t make the wrong decisions for themselves.
So please, use this. You know? You will save $60,640 if you’re in one of these categories but there’s a way to understand the choices you have to make for everybody. So I hope you will go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator.

But I have to say this. None of this will happen if you all don’t turn out and vote. None of it.
You know, I see all the signs saying I will vote. There’s also a website – please go to IWillVote.com – to make sure you’re registered.
All the information is there. You put in your name. You put in your address. And through the miracle of technology, you can find out if you’re registered. Or maybe because you moved you were purged from the records and you have to register again.
New Hampshire makes it easy. You can have same-day registration.
So both Bernie and I are excited about what we can do together. I am really looking forward to working with him, other strong Democrats and Republicans who want to help solve problems again in America.
Bringing people together is what I’m going to spend a lot of my time doing as your president.
And if you’ve had a chance to see or meet my running mate, Tim Kaine, you know how hard he’ll work to get things done and make it a high priority to produce results.
So, we’re going to move now to the panel…But I will end by saying that I’m excited about what we can do to make college affordable and especially as Bernie rightly said to open the doors to families and young people who have been left out.
We also want to make Pell Grants once again available year-round. And we want to make sure we have specific help for certain groups of students.
I’ll end with this story. I taught at the University of Arkansas Law School some years ago, and I met a lot of students not only in the law school but students on campus. I’d go and eat with them and go to events with them. And I met a lot of students who scraped together the tuition money but then something happened. You know, maybe they were already parents and their child care fell apart. Maybe they had to drive to and from school. They lived out in the country and their old car finally broke down and there was no public transportation. Or maybe they had a health emergency. And they would come and they would say to me, “What can I do? Where can I get the $300 to fix the car? Where can I find child care? How can I pay the doctor’s bills?”
I realized that we got to take care of tuition, making sure that you can go and be able to start and finish school. Got to make sure of costs and expenses, Pell Grants, and other ways of helping.
But we also have the fill the gaps that exist for a lot of students.
So I helped to start something called the Arkansas Single Parents Scholarship Fund because the people who had the most unexpected expenses were young parents, mostly but not always single moms – young, divorced, pretty much on their own trying to improve their lives and prospects.
And we started a fund to help fill those gaps. And you know, we did it over so many years now – about 35 years – and we’ve helped thousands of people so they didn’t have to drop out, they didn’t have to cut back.
That’s what I want for our country again, where we’re helping each other, where we’re reaching out and giving everybody a chance, and yes, sometimes a second or third chance to make the most of their lives, to pursue their dreams.
I think the American dream is big enough for everybody and education is absolutely essential to it. So please make sure you come out and vote in this election.
Thank you all!

Question:
…How can New Hampshire’s education K-12 and higher ed do a better job of aligning [a student’s] interests with her career?
Hillary Clinton:
…Well, I think for me, we’ve got to start looking at education as lifelong learning and that needs to start in the earliest years of life.
If we do a better job of working with families, after all families are a child’s first school and parents and grandparents are a child’s first teachers, if we do a better job helping to encourage and model and support children from literally zero to five and I support universal pre-kindergarten because the more opportunities kids have, the better.
And in families like…mine or Bernie’s, you know, we really spend a lot of time talking to our kids, reading to our kids. Well, I want every family to understand that’s literally building a child’s brain.
80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of 3. It’s also building a vocabulary which serves as the foundation for learning in school. So that by the time somebody enters public school, enters kindergarten, first grade, there’s not going to be such a big achievement gap. Kids are going to have a better chance to begin that process of learning.
I want kids in every zip code to have good teachers and good schools that are modern, that are up to date.
And we have a big digital gap.
You know, it’s hard to talk about aligning interests if you’re in one of the five million homes in America that have no Internet.
And so we’ve got to do a better job of making sure every child has access to technology because that is how people learn and how they get information today.
And then we’ve got to be sure that in school we recognize not every child learns the same way. Right?
And you know, a lot of our schools and a lot of our teachers are really good at this. But unfortunately in many places there’s an expectation that there’s one way to learn and I think there’s been too many tests and not the right kinds of tests to actually determine how people are learning and what they’re learning.
And because people learn differently, I think we’ve made a mistake taking what used to be called vocational education – I call it technical education – taking it out of our high schools. We took it out, and that really sent a signal to a lot of our young people, well, hey what they’re interested in, what they’re good at, how they learn is just no longer available to them.
I’d like to bring back technical education into high schools. I would like to do more to connect our high schools up to community colleges so that while you’re in high school, you can even go to community college, you can get credentials, you can get credit for going to college.
And I think if we recognize that teach child really is unique and there are many different ways of learning, we can do a better job of aligning that…and we can find out the talents.
I guess the final thing I would say is a lot of schools have lost so many of the extra-curricular activities that used to allow kids to find themselves and express themselves. Theater and art as well as technical education have been eliminated from a lot of schools.
And you know, kids learn through doing. Kids learn through music. Kids learn through art, through drama, through all kinds of other ways. And so making sure we have those opportunities for more kids and then opening the doors to higher education.
You know, we also want to make community college totally free. Community college, which should be the additional two years on top of elementary and secondary school. And then of course, we’re going to make sure that it’s tuition-free for as many American families and young people as we can reach.
So I think if we begin to really look at this as a lifelong learning experience and we have more on ramps and off ramps and return ramps so that even adults can go back and learn and while they’re learning maybe earn at the same time in apprenticeships and other training programs, we’ll get a 21st century education program and we need to do that because really the future is going to depend upon whether our young people have the skills and the education that they need.
Bernie Sanders:
There is not a lot that I can add to what Secretary Clinton said. She’s absolutely right.
But let me just say this that as a nation we need to take a deep breadth and ask ourselves a few questions in terms of children in general.
How does it happen that we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth?
How does it happen that working families in New Hampshire and Vermont are paying a very, very significant part of their income for child care or pre-K education while at the same time the child care workers are being paid minimum wage or not much more than that?
And what that tells me and what the Secretary was essentially saying is we need to change our national priorities and know that the most important resource that we have as a nation are our children and they must grow up healthy. They must get the intellectual and emotional nurturing that they need.
What the Secretary said is absolutely right. Every psychologist understands that the most important years of human life are zero to four and we have got to stand with the children, stand with the parents and make sure that all of our kids get the quality pre-K and child care that they need.
Thank you.

Question:
…How will your plan affect current college students?
Hillary Clinton:
Well, as soon as we can get it passed, it will affect all students, and it will also affect debt that current college students are having to take on.
Right now, we have so many students who are in the midst of their education. They’re in college. A lot of them are working jobs to be able to afford to be in college. But they still can’t get by so they’re taking on more debt.
So in two ways we’re going to begin to reduce costs for everybody in college, about to go to college, and we’re going to take on existing debt because under our plan there’s not going to be future debt if we do this right.
So that’s exactly how I think it could make a big difference in the lives of students right now and certainly those…who are going to be coming up over the years.
Bernie Sanders:
Let me just add to that. I am a member of the Senate Health Education and Labor Committee and this legislation will go through that committee.
And I can assure you – make no mistake about it – that I will work with President Clinton to make sure that this legislation is passed as quickly as we possibly can.
And to make that happen, we need your help.
Politics and government issues do not stop on election day. We need your help and the help of the American people to help us stand to change national priorities. We need millions of people telling Congress that public colleges and universities must be tuition-free.
So we’re going to work together on making that happen as soon as humanly possible.

Question:
…How will the debt-free college plan affect private colleges versus public colleges?
Hillary Clinton:
Well, this is a very important question.
The way our college system is set up, states have responsibility, as you know, for funding public colleges and universities.
Now, both public and private colleges and universities get some federal aid. But our challenge is how we first deal with public colleges and universities in terms of making it tuition-free, and we also have more leverage because as Bernie just said, it’s not only putting pressure on the Congress, we also have to put pressure on the state level.
Because why are we in the situation we find ourselves today when it comes to public colleges and universities in part because states have cut back on their contributions to public colleges and universities, which in turn has forced boards of trustees and administrators to raise tuition.
So this is a partnership. We are setting this up to work with states and to make it clear – it’s kind of carrots and sticks – that states that are willing to work with us to increase their contributions will be rewarded by this program, and states that are not we think will be under political pressure to do that.
The private schools will benefit directly from the debt repayment programs. Because if you go to a private college or university and you take out debt, you’ve taken out from the same programs from government programs, from private programs. So students will be benefitted directly in that way to get existing debt paid down.
Now, ultimately, I would also like to see private colleges and universities taking a hard look at their costs.
We hope that this will launch a serious discussion about what are the most important parts of a college experience that should be supported both in the public and the private systems and that everybody – people in administration, people who are alumni – will say “Hey, let’s try to prioritize here about what it is we need to invest our money in”, and we think that will help begin to reduce costs on the private side as well.
But private college and university students will absolutely benefit from paying down and refinancing and getting out from under student debt.

Question:
…How will your plan help those who have double digit interest rates?
Bernie Sanders:
Well, I think as the Secretary and I have both said, it is absurd that right now there are people in this country paying 10% interest rates on their student debt when you can refinance your home for 3% or buy a car at 2%. Makes no sense at all.
So what this plan says is you can go out and refinance your debt at the lowest interest rates you can find. And this will mean for many, many people a substantial reduction in their interest rates and significant reduction in what they have to pay off in terms of their debt.
Hillary Clinton:
Absolutely.
Now, I want to just add to what the Senator said that we are going to end the federal government making money off of lending money to students to get your education.
And we think if the federal government’s going to be involved, it ought to be a sort of revolving fund – paying out without making money off of it and then as its paid back at low interest rates, paying out again – keeping the virtuous cycle going.
But I know Sen. Sanders and I had exactly the same experiences out on the campaign trail. I mean, I would say to groups like this “Who has student debt?”
In fact, let’s do this right now. Who has student debt? Okay. Okay. Look at all those hands.
Does anybody here know – do you have an interest rate of let’s say 8% or higher? Okay, look at all those hands.
We’ve had in effect zero interest rates for eight years. It’s outrageous, and it’s really so unfair. It makes me furious that young people and their families have been told the only way they can borrow money to go to college, that’s really their collateral. They’re signing up, they’re doing the work, they’re trying to get ahead. But the only way they can do it is to sign up for loans 8%, 10%, 12%.
I think the highest I ran into, Bernie, was 14%. And I just – my heart broke for this young woman because she’s going to be paying that back until she’s a grandmother. And that is just so wrong.
Bernie Sanders:
You know, when I was here in New Hampshire, I don’t know if anybody in the audience is having this experience, I ran into a woman. She said, “Bernie, I’m not just paying off my kids’ student loans. I’m still paying off my own student loan.”
Now, the Secretary made a point earlier, which as politicians do, it’s worth repeating.
When you are faced with huge debt and high interest rates, you need to go out and get the job that pays you the most money, not the job that your heart wants you to do.
To give you an example. We have a desperate need – and another issue that the Secretary and I have worked on – is primary care in this country, expanding community health centers.
We have a serious crisis in terms of primary health care where even people with insurance can’t find medical help, can’t go to the doctor they need. We need tens of thousands of primary health care physicians, and there are many young people who would love to do that work. But you know what? It doesn’t pay as much as other types of work in medicine.
So you have people who want to be primary care physicians, can’t do that, can’t be dentists in under-served areas working at a community health center because they’re paying off $300,000 in debt for a dental school degree.
And that is why this issue is so important. It frees people up to do what needs to be done to do what they want to do, not just go out and get jobs to make as much money as they can to pay off those debts. That’s a big deal.

Question:
…How do you plan on making college cheaper for both in-state and out of state students?
Hillary Clinton:
Well, the tuition-free plan will apply to public colleges and universities no matter where the student comes from.
And I think that has a couple of consequences.
You know, because tuition has increased so much, a lot of colleges, public colleges and universities have been recruiting not just out of state students but out of country students because they will pay so much more. That then reduces the number of in state students whose families have lived here, have paid taxes here, and they would go to their state college or university.
So, part of what we hope will happen here is that there will be actually more room in the public colleges and universities for in state students and then whatever the percentage for out of state students it will not have the kind of impact that would decrease the number of in state because if you’re trying to figure out how to get to that budget, you’re going to be looking for people who pay more and that’s usually out of state and even out of country people.
But I just want to finish an additional thought about Bernie’s last point.
The way that refinancing will work is we’re going to get the interest rates down and then we’re going to provide every student who will take it – and I hope it’s every student – the chance for an income repayment plan like what I was talking about that I had.
So that we get the costs down. You reduce that interest rate. You bring it down so that your overall cost will be less…and then we put you in a program where you pay it back as a percentage.
I mean, this is really personal to me because the only way since I was out on my own and I didn’t have any big financial cushion and my dad was unable to help me, I would never have been able to go to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, which has given me the greatest joy and sense of mission in my life if I had not been able to pay it back as a percentage of my income.
Just like so many of my other friends, they got out of law school, they went to big law firms whether they wanted to or not. They had to in order to pay back their loans.
So we think this will be liberating and empowering.
And remember, I also said we want to provide loan forgiveness, not just reducing the interest rates and providing income contingency programs but loan forgiveness for public service and national service.
That’s the way it used to be and that’s the way we want it to be again for students today and students tomorrow.
Bernie Sanders:
Let me just say this: Today we talked about an enormously important issue, and that is making public colleges and universities tuition free. That’s just one issue.
We have got to transform our energy system and effectively combat climate change. That’s the future of this planet. We have got to rebuild a crumbling infrastructure. We’ve got to raise the minimum wage to a living wage. We have to have pay equity for women. We need immigration reform. We need to reform a broken criminal justice system.
Those are all of the issues that we are dealing with.
We are – what Secretary Clinton said, it’s not the next four years. It is the next 40 years.
And let me close on how I began. If we were a poor country, this would be a very different discussion. We would say, “Gee, we wish we can make public colleges and universities tuition free. We just can’t afford it. We wish we can rebuild our infrastructure. We just don’t have the money to do that.” That is not the case.
The case is that you got the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson and other billionaires trying to buy this election to protect their interests. What this campaign is about is protecting our interests.
And let’s get out and vote and make sure that this is the next president of the United States.
###

Wow!
Did anybody see that debate last night? Oh, yes, one down, two to go.
I am so excited to be back here at Wake Tech. I was here eight years ago, and I was so impressed then with the kinds of programs and opportunities that are offered here to people like Christine that I wanted to come back of course Raleigh but I wanted to come back here to Wake Tech.
You know, when Christine was talking, I was backstage watching her on a screen we had there, and she kept saying how she was about to cry. I was about to cry.
You know, her story says so much not just about her but about our country.
We are a country of second chances and third and fourth chances for people who are willing to work for them, get up everyday, do their best. That’s the basic bargain of America.
And I was really proud of Christine.
Thank you. Thank you.
And I think her patients at Duke Regional are in for a treat because not only the skills that she learned here at Wake Tech but that personality, that get-up-and-go personality is going to mean a lot to the people she’s taking care of. So Christine, thank you and God speed.
…[Acknowledgements of dignitaries omitted]…
You know, I just see America differently.
I think there’s nothing we can’t do if we make our minds up, roll up our sleeves, get working together, support institutions like Wake Tech, support people like Christine, and that’s what I intend to do.
…[Acknowledgements of dignitaries omitted]…

…There’s a lot that I want to talk about today but let me start with this because you may or may not know because today is National Voter Registration Day.
And you see some signs people are holding “I will vote”.
Now, that’s not only a great sign that shows you’re committed to vote, but it’s a website and you can go to IWillVote.com to make sure you are registered. And I hope you all will and I hope you’ll tell everybody that you know to do the same because we want to make sure people are registered.
And there is still time to get registered here in North Carolina, and I hope that you will.
Because think about everything that’s at stake in this election.
Right here in North Carolina, the very mean-spirited, wrong-headed decision by your legislature and governor to pass and sign House Bill 2 has hurt this state. But more than that, it’s hurt people. It has sent a message to so many people that well, you know, you’re not really wanted, you’re not really part of us.
I think the American dream is big enough for everybody.
The other thing your governor and legislature did was everything they could to make voting harder for people.
Now, they were pretty blatant about it. Make it harder for people of color. Make it harder for the elderly. And make it harder for the young.
Now, some of that’s been rolled back thankfully because it was so wrong and I would argue unconstitutional.
But the best way to show, “Hey, you know, in a democracy like ours, we can have the most vigorous, vibrant debates. That’s what it’s about. But we want everybody to exercise his or her right to vote. That’s the way we’re supposed to be making decisions.”
It distorts our democracy if some groups of people try to prevent other people from being able to do that.
Now, I have won elections and I have lost elections. So I know what the difference is.
But I’ll tell you this: I believe in what our founders established for us – to govern ourselves, to continue to widen the circle of opportunity and that includes the opportunity to be heard, to express yourself – your voice and your vote.
And the best way to reaffirm our commitment to that fundamental bedrock American value is to show up and vote and demonstrate the importance of your vote.
I believe that we may have a record-setting turnout in this election.

Some folks who follow this are saying we could have the biggest turnout we’ve ever had.
Now, that kind of makes sense because you could not have two more different visions about where we want our country to go in the future and who we are fighting for.
But early information is actually quite encouraging. We’re seeing spikes in early voting, and we’re seeing voting rates among African-Americans, Latinos, and young people going up.
And for the first time, the estimate is that young people could represent 25% of the vote.
Now, I would love to see that. Obviously, I hope people vote for me but I would love to see that because every election is about the future and honestly, it’s more about the future of young people and children than it’s ever been because of the difference in the approaches and the experiences of me and my opponent.
Now, last night, I got a chance to say a few things about what I want to do if I’m so fortunate enough to be elected as your president.
And you know, I do have this old fashioned idea that if I’m asking for your vote, I should tell you what I want to do.
And I also got to convey my excitement about what we can do together.
You see, I really think the central question in this election is what kind of country we want to be and what kind of future we want to build for our children and our grandchildren.
I think about that a lot in part because I started out working for the Children’s Defense Fund. It’s always been my passion about what we can do to help more kids live up to their God-given potential.
And during this campaign, people have asked me, “Well, how did you get interested in that?”
And the simple answer is my mother had such a neglected childhood. She was basically abandoned by her parents, sent to live with grandparents who didn’t want her. By the age of 14, she was out on her own, working in a home, babysitting, keeping house. She was basically a maid.
And when I think about my mother’s own life and how she told me when I was old enough to understand how different her life was and the one she created for me and my brothers, she would say she was so often saved by the kindness of other people.
You know, we overlook the importance of just how we treat each other, the respect we show, the kindness, the love that we show.
And I’m well aware that’s not something you put necessarily on a campaign website. But I’ve been talking about it because I think we’ve got to reassert our fundamental connection to each other.
You know, when my mother was in first grade, she never had any food. And her first grade teacher noticed that in those days they just brought food – you know, a little bag of food and then they’d sit in the classroom and eat it.
And my mother never had any food. And that first grade teacher noticed that and began to bring extra food but without embarrassing her.
She would say, “You know, Dorothy, I brought too much food. Would you like this sandwich? Would you like this milk?”
And it wasn’t until she herself was much older that my mother realized that that teacher fed her for that school year – something she didn’t have to do. But her love for her students, her recognition of a child who wasn’t well taken care of, meant that she stepped in.

And then when my mother worked as a maid, she really wanted to go to high school. She started working right before she would have been in high school because she had to get out of her grandparents’ home.
And the woman she worked for realized how much my mother wanted to go to high school. And so she said to her, “If you get up early…and you get your chores done, you can go to high school.”
And that’s what my mother did for four years. She got up early and then she literally had to run – run – to get to high school. It sounds harsh but not for my mom. She thought it was such a great gift of kindness that this woman gave her a place to live, gave her food to eat, gave her the chance to go to high school.
So when I talk about us being stronger together, I’m not just talking about what our government needs to do. I’m talking about what each of us can do to contribute.
We do need to make sure that our economy does work for everyone, not just those at the top and that means we’ve got to make investments in more good new jobs, infrastructure jobs, advanced jobs, technology and innovation, clean renewable energy jobs.
And we’ve got to do more to help small businesses because that’s where most of the new jobs come from.
As I said last night, my dad was a small businessman. When he got out of the Navy after World War II, he started this small business printing drapery fabrics and he had a print plant in Chicago. It was just a dark room. There was no natural light. He had two long table and he’d spread that fabric on the table. And then he would take silk screens – if you’ve ever seen one – and he’d start at one end and he’d put it down and he’d pour the paint in and he’d take the squeegee and he’d lift it up and he’d go all the way down to the end of one table and then he’d start on the other table. And he would do that until he got the job done.
And I would help him out from time to time. So I knew how hard he worked.
But he was so proud that he could give us a good middle class life because his dad was a factory worker.
So he was able to do what we want to see in America – keep going, keep reaching, move as high as your hard work and your ambition will take you.
So I want us to have an economy that works for everyone, to grow the economy, to create more jobs.
But I also want a fairer economy because when you work hard, you should not be still in poverty at the end of the year.
But if you are a minimum wage worker, if you work full-time minimum wage, you will make $15,000 a year. Two-thirds of minimum wage workers are women, most of them with families to support.
And I’ve talked to a lot of these women. Sometimes I’ll be at a cafe or sometimes I’ll be in a store and I’ll just start talking to them. And they will tell me – you know, it’s one of the most humbling experiences about being out there talking to people is that if you’re open to it, folks will tell you what’s on their minds and their hearts.
So I’ve met women who are working two full-time minimum wage jobs to make enough to be able to support their kids. So we need to raise the national minimum wage.
And we need to guarantee finally equal pay for women’s work because number one, it’s fair. It’s fair. And if your mother, your wife, your sister, or your daughter is working, don’t you want to see her paid what she should be paid for the work she does?
And the other thing I want to do, I want to make sure that more companies offer profit-sharing to their employees who help make the profits in the first place.

It makes no sense to me that sharing in profits would only go to the top executives.
I want more people in more jobs to realize the benefits of their hard work.
And last night at the debate, one of my guests was Mark Cuban. Now, Mark Cuban, who is a real billionaire, by the way, he has used profit-sharing from his very first successful business.
And he not only used it while the business was going but when the business was sold, he shared the profits from the sale and made 300 of his employees millionaires overnight.
Now, that’s the kind of business leadership I want to hold up because what we’ve seen from my opponent is someone who his own campaign manager has said built a lot of businesses on the backs of the little guy, stiffing people – dishwashers, painters, plumbers, architects, glass installers, marble installers, drapery installers across America.
Some of them have come forward. You can go to our website. You can see their stories. It’s heartbreaking.
And as I said last night, I’m really glad my dad never had a contract with Donald Trump when he was running his small business.
And in addition to making the economy fair, we’ve got to make it work better for working families who are trying to balance family and work.
You know, it’s really hard out there, isn’t it? And just listening to Christine’s story – getting up at 4 a.m. and studying, getting kids up at 7 a.m., going to school, going to work, going to another job. That’s not an uncommon story. We’ve made it really hard for a lot of people.
So here’s what I think we need to do and it’s not a luxury; it’s a necessity because I want more families to be able to go as far as their hard work will take them. And I’ve heard so many stories.
You know, people have told me about the difficult choices they face and the stresses they’re under. So let’s finally, since every other advanced economy has already done, let’s have paid family leave so that when you’re sick or your spouse or your child is sick or you have a newborn, you can take care of your loved one.
And let’s have earned sick days so that you don’t lose your job because you’re sick or you go to work because you’re sick.
And let’s finally have affordable child care, which in lots of states cost as much or more than in-state college tuition. I don’t think any family should ever have to pay more than 10% of your income for child care and we’re going to fix that so that becomes the norm.
And then let’s make sure that every educational opportunity is available without sending you into debt and breaking your budget.
Now, tomorrow, in New Hampshire, Bernie Sanders and I are going to talk about the college plan for debt-free college at public universities that he and I have worked on since the end of our primary.
And I want every family in North Carolina to know help is on the way.
And we’re also going to work so that you can refinance the debt you already have at much lower rates and get it paid off a lot sooner.
Now, how are we going to do that? Well, we’re going to go where the money is and the money’s at the top. We’re going to go after millionaires, billionaires, and corporations. We’re going to raise taxes on millionaires and billionaires, and we’re going to close corporate loopholes.
I believe that we can get that done…

…Our government needs to start working for everybody again, not just those who have lobbyists and lawyers and influence. That hasn’t worked out so well.
We’ve got to get back to first principles. Our job is to give the maximum opportunities to the maximum number of Americans and to especially focus on people who are working their way out of poverty and people in the middle class who want to go as far as they can go.
Let’s be a government for the struggling, the striving, and the successful!
So, I’m excited about what we can do. I really am.
And you know, I’m going to leave it to the fact checkers to go through all of Donald Trump’s claims. There was a lot of work for fact checkers last night.
But here’s a couple of things that caught my attention.
He actually bragged about gaming the system to get out of paying his fair share of taxes.
In fact, I think there’s a strong probably he hasn’t paid federal taxes a lot of years.
And this is a man who goes around calling our military a disaster, who goes around criticizing every institution from health care to education, our vets. But he probably hasn’t paid a penny to support our troops or our vets or our schools or our health care systems.
And when I confronted him with the reasons why he won’t release his tax returns, and I got to that point where I said, “Well, maybe he’s paid zero.” He said that makes him smart.
Now, if not paying taxes makes him smart, what does that make all the rest of us?
You know, I’ve got to tell you. Bill and I have been blessed. We didn’t come from millionaire families.
My husband’s father – his biological father – died before he was born. His mother went to nursing school in order to support him. They struggled. They worked hard.
And America gave him the chance to get a good education, pursue his dreams, end up being president.
My dad, as I told you, worked hard.
So, Bill and I have released all of our tax returns going back 40 years. And if you look, you’ll see that we pay the highest marginal rate. We try to give 10% to charity because we believe in this country.
And we believe that with the blessings we’ve been given, we should do our part.
You know, the other thing he admitted last night was that he actually rooted for the housing crisis to happen. I don’t think I’d make a big bragging point out of that but he seemed to feel like, “Hey, it shows you how smart I am.”
He basically said, “Yeah, if the housing market crashes, I can go in and buy stuff and make some more money.”
I’ve got to tell you – what kind of person believes that? What kind of person would want to root for nine million families losing their homes? One who should never be president is the answer to that question.
And he made it very clear that he didn’t prepare for that debate.
You know, at one point, he was kind of digging me for spending time off the campaign trail to get prepared. But just trying to keep track of everything he says took a lot of time and effort.
And I said, “Yeah, you know what? I did prepare. And I’ll tell you something else I prepared for. I prepared to be president of the United States and I think that’s good.”

So, as I said in the beginning, we have two different visions.
I believe we are stronger together. That is at the core of what I’ve done over my years in advocacy and public service.
I believe that America is already great and it is our responsibility to make it even greater.
I believe that as we make our economy work for everyone, we also need to keep our country safe and we need to provide strong, steady leadership in the world with our allies and our partners.
I’ve laid out my views on a range of national security and foreign policy issues.
I’ve laid out my plan for defeating and destroying ISIS.
And what we hear from my opponent is dangerously incoherent. It’s unclear exactly what he is saying.
But words matter, and last night, it sounded like he was basically telling our treaty allies in Asia, “Hey, we’re not sure we’re going to be there for you even though we have a mutual defense treaty.”
Words matter. People hear that and they start to doubt America’s word, America’s intention.
I felt like I had to jump in and say, “I just want to be clear. We will honor our treaties. We will support our allies and our partners.”
You know, this is not reality TV. This is real. It’s as real as it gets.
So we’re going to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top.
We’re going to keep America safe, provide strong, steady leadership, and we are going to bring our country together across the divides that have pitted Americans against each other.
Economic worries are not the only ones keeping families up at night, are they?
There’s still a lot we don’t know about the recent incidents in Tulsa and Charlotte but this we do know. We’ve got to bring communities together. We have to listen to each other. We have to make it clear that everyone is safer when there is respect from the law for the communities they protect and respect for the law from the communities that are protected.
And we’ve got to do something about the epidemic of gun violence that has taken too many – too many – lives in our country.
Again, I think we can come together.

You know, a very large majority of Americans and a majority of gun owners believe in comprehensive background checks. They believe in the Second Amendment as I do. They believe in the right of individuals to have guns as I do.
But they believe, along with me, that we should not let guns fall into the wrong hands of people who will use them to kill other people and make it so easy to get them.
So there’s work to do but it’s great work. It’s important work.
Starting right here in North Carolina. We have 42 days left.
This election is going to be close. They all are these days. That’s why every call you make, every door you knock on, every friend you register to vote, could make the difference.
I want you if you can to text JOIN right now to 47246 or go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to volunteer here in North Carolina.
And I know there’s a big overflow room and I’m told they can hear me. So to my friends in the overflow, we want you to be just as involved as anyone else. Thank you for coming!
So remember, here in North Carolina, starting on Oct. 20th, you can register and vote early at the same time at any one-stop early voting site in your county.
And remember, it’s not just the presidential race. It’s the governor’s race, the lieutenant governor’s race, the U.S. Senate, and other races up and down the ticket.
Because we want to prove who we are as Americans in this election. We’re not fearful. We don’t want to build walls. We want to build bridges. We don’t want to turn against each other. We want to work with one another.
We want to set big goals again here in our country. I’ve got some big goals that I know we can achieve.
Take climate change, which my opponent says is a “hoax perpetrated by the Chinese”. I think it could be one of the biggest economic opportunities our country has ever seen and I want us to take advantage of that.
Do the right thing and benefit from it. That’s what I’m offering.
We’re going to deploy a half a billion more solar panels in the first four years of my administration. And we will produce enough clean power to power every home in America within 10 years.
And we’re going to lead the world because some country is going to be the clean energy super power of the 21st century. Now, the way things are stacking up, I think it’s either going to be Germany, China, or us. I want it to be us, and it will be us.
That is exactly right. I love this country. I’m proud of this country. I want to be a leader who brings people together in our country, sets those goals, gets about the business of achieving them, and proves once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you!

Hello, Miami-Dade College!
It is so great to be here with all of you, and I want to thank everyone for gathering…
…What I am most excited about is to be here with one of the world’s foremost leaders on climate change, Al Gore.
You know, about a decade, Al made an movie called “An Inconvenient Truth”.
Now maybe some of you have seen it but if you haven’t, I hope you’ll watch it tonight.
Now, it doesn’t have a lot of special effects but it does have a lot of drama.
And here’s the main message that climate change is real, it’s urgent, and America can take the lead in the world in addressing it. Right?
We here in America can develop new clean energy solutions. We can transform our economy. We can rally the world to cut carbon pollution.
And above all, we can fulfill our moral obligations to protect our planet for our children and our grandchildren.
Now, let me just say – so let’s remember what’s at stake. I’m running against a guy who denies science, denies climate change, says it’s a hoax created by the Chinese.
So this is something that Al Gore has been working on for a really long time, and I want you to know how far back he goes.
…And I want you to know how far back he goes [fighting] climate change in the House of Representatives with the world famous climate scientist Jim Hansen.
And then when Al became a senator, he continued to raise the alarm and look for solutions.
And as vice president, he led America’s efforts to negotiate the Kyoto Protocol to cut greenhouse gas emissions.

And you take all this together, those 30 years of leadership, led Al Gore to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.
I was very proud because he had been determined and persistent and in the face of a lot of people in public life, in business, and elsewhere who were trying to diminish the importance of the science, he never wavered.
And in the years since, the climate challenge has only grown more stark.
And I will tell you this, it is one of the most important issues at stake in this election.
Look at it this way, our next president will either step up our efforts to address climate change, to protect our planet, to protect our health, and to create good jobs that cannot be outsourced by growing our clean energy economy.
Or in the alternative, we will be dragged backwards and our whole future will be put at risk.
So we’ve really got to get this right.
And if you need additional convincing, just remember what happened this week. Hurricane Matthew killed at least 26 people in our country, more than 1,000 as far as we know right now in Haiti. North Carolina is still dealing with serious flooding and will be at least for the rest of this week, if not longer.
We all need to support each other as our communities put the pieces back together and begin the long road back from this disaster.
That’s why I’ve encouraged everyone to give what you can afford to the Florida Disaster Fund or to Team Rubicon, the veterans organization working to respond to Hurricane Matthew, or to UNICEF helping children and families on the ground in Haiti.
Now, some will say, “You know, we’ve always had hurricanes. They’ve always been destructive.”
And that’s true. But Hurricane Matthew was likely more destructive because of climate change.
Right now, the ocean is at or near record high temperatures and that contributed to the torrential rainfall and the flash flooding that we saw in the Carolinas.
Sea levels have already risen about a foot – one foot – in much of the Southeast, which means that Matthew’s storm surge was higher and the flooding was more severe.
Plus, as you know, the impact of climate change goes beyond extreme events like hurricanes.
It’s become a daily reality here in Miami. You have streets in Miami Beach and Shorecrest that are flooding at high tide. The ocean is bubbling up through the sewer system.
Sometimes people call 311 because they assume a water main must have broken when actually it is the sea rising around them.
So if you need proof that climate change is real and that it’s costly, there you go.
So, at this rate, at this rate, my friends – my friends, please, let’s focus on what’s really important in this election and in your future and the future of our country.
Because this is what I want you to hear and understand. At the rate we are going, one in eight homes in Florida could be under water by the end of the century.
And when kids like that adorable young boy over there on the his dad’s shoulders are grandparents, we believe…[inaudible]…several billion dollars worth of properties in Florida at risk. And nationwide, it’s $882 billion in property at risk.

But there’s also health consequences. Mosquitoes that carry diseases like the Zika virus and ticks that carry Lyme disease are expanding their ranges.
And hotter summers and longer pollen seasons are making allergies and asthmas worse, which is especially bad for our children.
And look at what’s happening in California, a brutal five-year drought. Wildfires have burned more than nine million acres in our country last year.
And it’s also about our national security. The Pentagon has identified climate change as a threat to our national security.
The U.S. Atlantic Fleet is based in Norfolk, Virginia. It’s the largest naval installation in the world. And because of rising sea levels, the base is frequently flooded, even when it’s sunny.
So that’s why the Pentagon is looking at how climate change will affect readiness and operations, not just in Norfolk but in all of our military bases around the world.
So you would think if you look at the facts, if you listen to the science that even the most committed climate skeptic would say, “Okay, I agree. Something’s happening here. We need to take it seriously.”
But unfortunately, there are still too many people in Washington on the campaign trail who won’t face what’s happening right in front of us.
Donald Trump is “not a big believer” in climate change.
And you know, as I said, he said it’s a hoax created by the Chinese and in our first debate two weeks ago, he tried to deny saying that. But you know, that Tweet is still there for everyone to see.
And I would wish that Donald would actually listen to people here in Florida like Miami Beach’s mayor, Philip Levine, and others who are doing incredible work to address these sunny day floods.
Or maybe he would listen to Miami Beach Commissioner John Elizabeth Aleman. John Elizabeth is a Republican but she’s supporting our campaign because she knows America can’t afford a candidate who doesn’t accept climate science.
Or maybe Donald would listen to our military leaders who say climate change threatens our national security.
Or what about the ranchers in Colorado or the mayors in Arizona or the community leaders in Alaska who say “Our lives and jobs are being affected. Please let’s come together as a country and do something about it.”
We cannot risk putting a climate denier in the White House at all. That is absolutely unacceptable.
We need a president who believes in science and who has a plan to lead America in facing this threat and in creating good jobs, and yes, saving our planet.
So here’s what I want to do.
First, we need to do a lot more on clean energy. The clean energy super power of the 21st century is probably going to be either Germany, China, or us, and I want it to be us and I want you to be part of making it us.
And we need to accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy and create high paying jobs building and installing more solar panels and wind turbines, modernizing our electric grid, retrofitting buildings, building resilient 21st century infrastructure.
And we have to make sure no community is left out or left behind, not our inner cities or our small towns or our remote rural areas.
Now, you wouldn’t know it if you only listen to my opponent talk about how terrible everything is. He has such a dark, divisive view of America.
But, that doesn’t tell the story about what’s really going on. It’s actually pretty exciting!
In red states and blue states, local leaders are stepping up. Rural electric co-ops are investing in community solar power.
And you see that across America.
Union workers in Michigan – union workers in Michigan – are getting ready to build electric Chevys in a plant powered by clean energy.

Iowa is already getting a third of its electricity from wind. Wind turbines are going up in New England and on Lake Erie.
Renewable energy is already the fastest growing source of new jobs in America.
I think that is so exciting. There are nearly two million people already working in energy efficiency.
And in Spartanburg, South Carolina, a project called Regenesis is taking an old landfill and turning it into a solar farm. That landfill was a blight and a health threat just 250 feet away from a residential neighborhood. Now that same land will generate enough clean, renewable electricity to power 500 homes.
So this is what we can do.
And I think it’s time Washington should back up and support doing more of that.
As president, I want us to have 500 million more solar panels installed across America by the end of my first term.
And let’s generate enough renewable energy to power every home in America within the decade.
Let’s make our buildings and factories more energy efficient and cut our oil consumption by a third.
And we can get there by investing and supporting in cutting-edge research, to keep developing cheaper and better clean energy technologies, investing in clean energy infrastructure and advanced manufacturing, putting big partnerships together between states, cities, and rural communities.
We can do all of this and create millions of good-paying jobs as we do.
So I’m hoping that these good jobs will offer security and dignity while we produce the clean energy that will power the economy of the future.
The clean energy solutions are being developed right here in America. We want them manufactured in America and installed in America and putting people to work in America.
And while we do that, let’s make sure that our communities are ready for the impacts of climate change that are coming right at us.
We need to invest in resilient infrastructure. Now, sometimes that might mean building a sea wall. Other times, let’s be more creative.
Like the New York Harbor where we’re replanting oyster beds to form natural barriers to storm surge.
Sometimes we’ll overhaul an outdated sewer system to deal with flooding from heavy downpours.
In Philadelphia they’re trying something else – green roofs, porous pavements, curbside gardens to help absorb stormwater.
And here’s something we don’t talk enough about. Let’s make sure our hospitals can stay open and operational in any kind of disaster.
Because sadly, I saw what happened in New York during Hurricane Sandy. Newborns who had been on respirators had to be evacuated down nine flights of stairs in one New York hospital because the electricity went off. Nurses, I love nurses. Heroic, courageous nurses were carrying those babies and manually squeezing bags of air to keep them breathing.
Now, here in Miami, you know how important this is. You have retrofitted the Nicklaus Children’s Hospital with a hurricane-resistant shell for exactly this reason, and every hospital in the country should follow your lead and build in more resilience.
And then finally, we’ve got to lead the world to confront the climate challenge. If we don’t do it, no one will do it. We must confront the climate challenge. There’s no doubt about that.
And so, let’s move on with the kind of leadership that the world as well as our country deserve.
You know, when I was Secretary of State, I worked with President Obama to make climate change a top diplomatic priority.
We fought to get China and India and other major polluters to agree for the first time in history to be part of the solution.
In fact, we had to crash a secret meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark, slipped past the guards. It was all very cloak and dagger.

And because of that breakthrough and a lot of patient, persistent work, and because of American leadership, 190 nations signed on to a global agreement last December.
It’s called the Paris Agreement and I am not exaggerating when I say it is our last best chance to solve the global climate crisis.
And what does Donald Trump want to do? He wants to cancel the Paris agreement.
You know, he doesn’t care what it would do to the planet. He doesn’t care how much that would damage American leadership. He doesn’t care what it would do to the future we’d leave our kids and our grandkids.
Well, he may not care but we do and that’s why this election is so critically important.
Because on the ballot is not just my name. It’s every issue you care about. It’s our value as a country.
Climate change needs to be a voting issue. We need to elect people up and down the ballot and at every level of government who take it seriously and are willing to roll up their sleeve and get something done.
Please, we cannot keep sending climate deniers and defeatists to Congress or state houses and certainly not to the White House.
And you know, if you care about climate, your Senate race is also really important, and I’ll tell you why. It is unacceptable – it is an unacceptable response for Marco Rubio when asked about climate change to say, “I’m not a scientist.”
Well, why doesn’t he ask a scientist? Maybe then he’d understand why it’s so important that he representing Florida be committed to climate change. That’s why I hope you’ll elect Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate.
Look, we need leaders who can get results. It’s easy to stonewall.
It’s not enough to protest. We need creativity. We need hard work.
And when it comes to climate change, we don’t have a minute to waste.
And so I know it’s easy to get cynical, especially about our politics. I get that. But this election matters more than any has in a really long time and I believe that as strongly as I can we’ve got to address this issue for our sake, our children, our grandchildren.
And it’s so critically important when you think about how leadership can make a difference.
And just look, if you will, look at the difference between your state – the sunshine state, which has less solar energy than New Jersey has right now.
And you know why? Because you have a governor who has ordered your state government never to use the words climate change.
So, my friends, this is a big deal in this election and it’s going to be a big deal for our country and our world.
And there isn’t anybody, there isn’t anybody who knows more, has done more, has worked harder. I know he was in Miami just last year training and educating people to be climate change activists. I can’t wait to have Al Gore advising me when I am president of the United States.
So please, join me in welcoming our former vice president, a climate change leader, and an all-around great guy, Al Gore!

…You know, earlier tonight, Al reminded me that when the first Al Smith ran for president, he chose as his running mate the progressive senator from Arkansas, Joseph T. Robinson, who was one of my husband’s political heroes.
This work that you do through the dinner – Al, you’ve done it now for 33 years – is such a labor of love. You’ve been a hero for both the children of the archdioceses and for the city of New York. And I think we all owe Al Smith a great, great round of applause.
This is such a special event that I took a break from my rigorous nap schedule to be here.
And as you’ve already heard, it’s a treat for all of you too because usually I charge a lot for speeches like this.
But for me, it was kind of ironic thinking about a fiery populist – Al Smith.
If he were here today and saw how much money we’ve raised for needy children, he’d be very proud.
And if he saw this magnificent room full of plutocrats celebrating his legacy, he’d be very confused.
It’s a special honor to be here with your eminence. Now, I know, your eminence, you were criticized for inviting both Donald and me here tonight, and you responded by saying, “If I only sat down with those who were saints, I’d be taking all my meals alone.”
Now, just to be clear, I think the cardinal is saying I’m not eligible for sainthood but getting through these three debates with Donald has to count as a miracle.
So, I guess I’m up against the highest, hardest, stained-glass ceiling.
But your eminence, you do deserve great credit for bringing together two people who’ve been at each other’s throats. Mortal enemies. Bitter foes.
I’ve got to ask, how did you get the governor and mayor here together tonight?

Now, I’ve got to say there are a lot of friendly faces here in this room, people that I’ve been privileged to know and to work with. I just want to put you all in a basket of adorables.
And you look so good in your tuxes or as I refer to them – formal pantsuits.
And you know, because this is a friendly dinner for such a great cause, Donald, if at any time you don’t like what I’m saying, feel free to stand up and shout “Wrong!” while I’m talking.
You know, come to think of it, it’s amazing that I’m up here after Donald. I didn’t think he’d be okay with a peaceful transition of power.
And Donald, after listening to your speech, I will also enjoy listening to Mike Pence deny that you ever gave it.
You know, I’ve had the privilege of being at the Al Smith dinners in years past and I always enjoy it.
But remember, if you’re not happy with the way it comes out, it must be rigged.
And it’s always a special treat for me to be back in New York – a city that I love and which I think truly embodies the best of America.
You know, don’t you think?
People look at the Statue of Liberty and they see a proud symbol of our history as a nation of immigrants, a beacon of hope for people around the world.
Donald looks at the Statue of Liberty and sees a four. Maybe a five if she loses the torch and tablet and changes her hair.
You know, come to think of it, you know what would be a good number for a woman? 45.
But I digress.

Now, I’m going to try my best tonight but I understand I am not known for my sense of humor. That’s why it did take a village to write these jokes.
People say – and I hear them. I know. They say I’m boring compared to Donald.
But I’m not boring at all. In fact, I’m the life of every party I attend and I’ve been to three.
And when the parties get out of hand, as occasionally they do, it’s important to have a responsible chaperone who can get everyone home safely, and that is why I picked Tim Kaine to be my vice president.
Now, you noticed there is no teleprompter here tonight, which is probably smart, because maybe you saw Donald dismantle his prompter the other day, and I get that. They’re hard to keep up with, and I’m sure it’s even harder when you’re translating from the original Russian.
But every year, this dinner brings together a collection of sensible, committed mainstream Republicans or as we now like to call them Hillary supporters.
Now, some of my critics, and I hear that too, yeah. They think I only say what people want to hear. Well, tonight, that is true.
And here’s exactly what you want to hear. This election will be over very, very soon.
And look at this dais. We got Charlie Rose and Maria Bartiromo and Chris Matthews and Gail King and Nora O’Donnell and Katie Couric. This counts as a press conference, right?
It is great also to see Mayor Bloomberg here. It’s a shame he’s not speaking tonight but I’m curious to hear what a billionaire has to say.
And look out at the dais. We’ve got the honorable Chuck Schumer, the honorable Andrew Cuomo, the honorable Mike Bloomberg, the honorable Bill De Blasio, the honorable David Dinkins and so many other wonderful elected officials.
And we have Rudy Giuliani.
Now, many don’t know this but Rudy actually got his start as a prosecutor going after wealthy New Yorkers who avoided paying taxes. But as the saying goes, if you can’t beat them, go on Fox News and call them a genius.

So I’ve said, we’ve now had our third and thankfully final debate.
Sharing a stage with Donald Trump is like – well, nothing really comes to mind. There is nothing like sharing a stage with Donald Trump.
Donald wanted me drug-tested before last night’s debate. And look, I’ve got to tell you, I am so flattered that Donald thought I used some sort of performance enhancer. Now, actually, I did. It’s called preparation.
And looking back, I’ve had to listen to Donald for three full debates and he says I don’t have any stamina. That is 4.5 hours. I have now stood next to Donald Trump longer than any of his campaign managers.
Now, I have deep respect for people like Kellyanne Conway. She’s working day and night for Donald and because she’s a contractor, he’s probably not even going to pay her.
But I think the good news is that the debates finally allowed Republicans to unite around their candidate. The bad news is it’s Mike Pence.
And it’s been a long, long campaign. That should be one of our highest priorities – shortening the campaigns.
And whoever wins this election, the outcome will be historic. We’ll either have the first female president or the first president who started a Twitter war with Cher.
And if Donald does win, it’ll be awkward at the annual President’s Day photo when all the former presidents gather at the White House and not just with Bill. How is Barack going to get past the Muslim ban?

Now, Republicans in particular seems frustrated with their nominee.
Paul Ryan told the Republican members of the House, “You don’t have to support the top of the ticket. Don’t worry about anyone besides yourself. Just do what’s in your own best interest.” So I guess Donald really has unified his party around his core philosophy.
And I don’t understand their unhappiness. They say Donald doesn’t have many policies. He has no policies. I keep hearing that.
I’d actually like to defend him on this. Donald has issues – serious issues – really, really serious issues.
And I worry about Donald’s go-it-alone attitude. For example, at this convention, when he said, “I alone can fix it.” You know, in the ‘90s, I said the same thing about America’s health care system and it didn’t work out so well for me either.
But speaking of health, Donald has been very concerned about mine. Very concerned.
He actually sent a car to bring me here tonight. Actually, it was a hearse.
But I kind of want to just put the information out there so everybody can draw their own conclusions and you can judge our relative health.
We’ve each released our medical records. My blood pressure is 100 over 70. His is “unbelievably great”. My cholesterol is 189. His is “presidential”. My heart rate is 72 beats per minute. His is the most beats ever or the least beats ever, whichever sounds best.
But Donald really is as healthy as a horse. You know, the one that Vladimir Putin rides around on.

But I can say without fear of contradiction tonight that I will be the healthiest and youngest woman ever to serve as president.
But this has really been a strange campaign. You saw it last night. You saw it again tonight.
Donald has attacked me for life in public service. And I didn’t get that at first. I kind of get it now. As he told Howard Stern, he doesn’t like it when women have been around for more than 35 years.
But Donald, we have so much more in common than actually you may realize.
For example, I’ve tried to inspire young people by showing them that with resilience and hard work, anything is possible, and you’re doing the same. A third grade teacher told me that one of her students refused to turn in his homework because it was “under audit”.
And here’s another similarity. The Republican National Committee isn’t spending a dime to help either one of us.
So tonight, let’s embrace the spirit of the evening. Let’s come together, remember what unites and just rip on Ted Cruz.
I hope you enjoyed my remarks tonight. I said no to some jokes that I thought were over the line. But I suppose you can judge for yourself on Wikileaks in the next few days.
Donald will tell us after the benediction whether he accepts that this dinner is over. He has to wait and see.

But there’s nothing funny about the stakes in this election. In the end, what makes this dinner important are not the jokes we tell but the legacy that we carry forward.
It’s often easy to forget how far this country has come and there are a lot of people in this room tonight who themselves or their parents or grandparents came here as immigrants, made a life for yourselves, took advantage of the American dream and the greatest system that has ever been created in the history of the world to unleash the individual talents, energy, and ambition of everyone willing to work hard.
And when I think about what Al Smith went through, it’s important to just reflect how groundbreaking it was for him, a Catholic, to be my party’s nominee for president.
Don’t forget, school boards sent home letters with children, saying that if Al Smith is elected president, you will not be allowed to have or read a Bible. Voters were told that he would annul Protestant marriages. And I saw a story recently that said people even claimed the Holland Tunnel was a secret passageway to connect Rome and America to help the Pope rule our country.
Those appeals – appeals to fear and division – can cause us to treat each other as the other.
Rhetoric like that makes it harder for us to see each other, to respect each other, to listen to each other and certainly a lot harder to love our neighbor as ourself.
I believe how we treat others is the highest expression of faith and of service.

Now, I’m not Catholic. I’m a Methodist. But one of the things that we share is the belief that in order to achieve salvation, we need both faith and good works.
And you certainly don’t need to be Catholic to be inspired by the humility and heart of the Holy Father Pope Francis or to embrace his message – his message about rejecting a mindset of hostility, his calls to reduce inequality, his warnings about climate change, his appeal that we build bridges, not walls.
Now, as you may know, my running mate, Tim, is Catholic and went to Jesuit schools. And one of the things he and I have talked about is this idea from the Jesuits of the Magis, the more the better.
Well, we need to get better at finding ways to disagree on matters of policy while agreeing on questions of decency and civility – how we talk to each other, treat each other, respect each other.
So I’ve taken this concept of Jesuit of the Magis to heart in this campaign as best as one can in the daily heat, the back and forth of a presidential campaign to ask how we can do more for each other and better for each other.
Because I believe that for each of us, our greatest monument on this Earth won’t be what we build but the lives we touch. And that is ultimately what this dinner is all about and it’s why it’s been such a great honor to join you all again.
Thank you.

Hello Cleveland!
Wow!
Whoo! There is nothing like being introduced by Congresswoman Marcia Fudge to get everybody going!
I am so excited to be here and what a time to be back in Cleveland.
The Indians are going to the World Series. That’s after the Cavs won the championship. What a year for Cleveland…
Now, I for one am hoping for a Great Lakes series. I spent a lot of days at Wrigley Field as a kid so that would be a dream come true for me to have Cleveland and Chicago in the World Series and for us to win Ohio!
I want to thank all of the people who are here today…
I’ll tell you, we could really use a Democratic Senate to get things done for the people of Ohio and America.
…We need you all in. We need you all in!
You’re rallying together and we need you rallying together because you know I really believe we are stronger together.
Anybody watch the debate Wednesday night?
Well, that was the third and last time that I will ever have to debate Donald Trump.
I have now spent 4.5 hours on stage with Donald proving once again I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
Really, you just have to be a good cheer when you find yourself in situations like that.

And because I love this country and I believe in the American people, I could feel so clear in my own mind and my heart about what we can do together.
So no matter what he was saying, I just kept thinking of all the people that I have met throughout this campaign. And I had the chance to talk about some of the most important concerns on people’s minds, what keeps you up at night.
And as I said then and as I have said continuously, we’re going to invest in the middle class. We’re going to invest in you and your families. We’re going to make sure we produce enough good jobs with rising incomes that every single person, especially every single young American here today, will have the chance to go as far as your talents and your hard work will take you.
And we’re also going to protect our children from gun violence. We are not going to tolerate the kind of gun violence epidemic that has swept this country and results in the deaths of 33,000 people a year.
We can come together to meet our challenges no matter what they are.
But on Wednesday night, Donald Trump did something no other presidential nominee has ever done. He refused to say that he would respect the results of this election.
Now, make no mistake. By doing, that he is threatening our democracy. He is basically saying, hey, we’ve been around 240 years and we’ve always had peaceful transitions, no matter who won or who lost. Look, if you lose an election – I’ve lost elections – you don’t feel very good the next day, do you?
But we know in our country the difference between leadership and dictatorship, right?
And the peaceful transition – the peaceful transition of power is one of the things that sets us apart. It’s how we hold our country together, no matter who’s in charge.
You know, I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State and I saw the difference between what we do and what others do.
I was in countries where people jail their political opponents or execute them or exile them or invalidate elections that they didn’t win. That can never be allowed to happen here.
I believe that’s true no matter who you support in this election. Whether or not you support me or you support my opponent, together we must support American democracy and the country that has given every one of us so many opportunities.
And the best way to do that, my friends, is to turn out and vote.

I’m excited because we are well on our way. There’s an inspiring story being written right now by people across America and many of you are getting involved in this election – some of you for the first time in your lives.
We now have in America more than 200 million registered voters.
That is more than we’ve ever had in our entire history and that is really good news for our democracy.
More than 50 million millennials have registered to vote so far. You know what that means. Young people will determine the outcome of this election, which I think is good news. That means our future is in good hands.
And listen to this because this is really exciting. More than 4 million people have already voted, including many people right here in Ohio.
In fact, in the first four days of in-person voting here in Ohio, more people showed up to vote than they did at the same time in 2012 at our last election. That is fantastic and it shows how serious people are taking this election.
So numbers like that remind us that no matter all the negativity that’s out there, there’s something really exciting right now. People are coming together – Democrats, Republicans, Independents – all of us to reject hate and division.
People are motivated to vote early to defend core American values, to embrace a future where every person counts, everyone has a place, and everyone can contribute. That is my vision.
I have a hopeful, optimistic, unifying vision for what our country will be. Because from the beginning, our campaign has been focused on ideas, not insults, on bringing people together, not tearing us apart.

And I want all of you to know that that’s true not only for the campaign. But I am fortunate enough to be your president, I want you to know and I want you to tell – I want you to tell anybody you know – any friends or colleagues at school or work or your neighborhood who may be planning to support the other guy, here’s what I want you to tell them that I want to be their president. I want to be every single American’s president, whether you agree or disagree, whether you vote for me or vote against me.
I believe we can disagree without being disagreeable. I believe that. And I’ve seen that happen.
I want to be a good listener. I know there are a lot of people right here in Ohio who are discouraged, frustrated, even angry about what’s going on in their lives, about losing jobs. They’re upset about what they see happening around them. I get that.
But I think anger is not a plan. We need plans that will help us deal with the legitimate concerns and questions that people have here in Ohio.
I think that’s what the country needs now, and that is what I will try to offer.
I am not going to pretend that we can just snap our fingers and solve our problems. That would not be fair. It wouldn’t be true. But I know we can make progress together.
And you deserve something to vote for, not just against.

So I want to speak directly to the challenges that a lot of people here in Ohio face, especially when it comes to our economy.
You see, I believe really simply that when the middle class thrives, America thrives. When we build our economy from the middle out and the ground up, not from the top down, we are more likely to provide better lives, better incomes, better opportunities for more Americans.
My opponent has a different perspective.
He really believes if you give trillions – that’s with a T – trillions in tax cuts to the wealthy, to millionaires and billionaires and corporations, everything will work out. It’s really trickle-down on steroids.
I believe differently, that we must invest in working families, in the middle class, in small businesses. That will power the economy.
And that’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to get the economy to work for everyone, not just those at the top who have done pretty well over the last years.
Now, Donald likes to say he’s on the side of American workers but his actions tell a different story.
He has been buying cheap Chinese steel and aluminum for his construction projects, when he should be buying good American-made steel that supports good American jobs.
And this is a very important issue here in Ohio because you’re one of the largest steel producing states in America. So you understand how important this is to support the American steel industry.
So I’m going to let Donald try to explain himself to the steel workers filing for unemployment. He has put Chinese steel workers to work, not American steel workers, and we’re going to change that.
And for all of his talk about putting America first, he’s made his products in at least 12 other countries. Trump suits were made in Mexico. They could have been made in Brooklyn, Ohio. Trump furniture is made in Turkey and it could have been made in Cleveland. Trump bar ware is made in Slovenia instead of Toledo.
So if he wants to make America great again, why doesn’t he start by making things in America again?

And we also know that he hasn’t paid a dime in federal income tax for years. He says that makes him smart. Well, I don’t know how smart you have to be to lose $1 billion in a year in the first place.
But what that means is everybody else here, all of us, have paid more in federal income taxes than a billionaire. Right?
And that means he’s contributed zero – zero – for our military or our vets, zero for Pell Grants to help young people go to college, zero for our highways or investing in clean energy or other ways to help us with new jobs for the future.
Now, Tim Kaine and I, we have a different view. We want to make the biggest investment in new jobs since World War II – jobs in infrastructure and manufacturing, clean energy, technology, and small business.
We are going to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
And I’ve set some big goals. I want us to deploy half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home within 10 years.

We’re also going to strengthen education at every level, starting with universal pre-kindergarten education.
And we want good schools with good teachers in every zip code so that every kid gets a world class education.
I want us to bring back technical education in high school. I think it was a mistake when we took it out of our high school.
And let’s remember it’s at community colleges like this that thousands and thousands of people in our country of all ages get such a good start!
And I’m going to make public colleges and universities tuition free for any family making less than $125,000 a year.
Education should lift you up, not hold you back, and we’re going to help you pay back and pay down your loans. Too many young people are burdened by those debts. It’s going to be great to help you pay it back as a percentage of your incomes so you can never be on the hook for more than you can afford.
Sen. Bernie Sanders and I worked on this plan together. It’s going to help save millions of people thousands of dollars. And you can actually go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator to see how much money you and your family could save with our plan.
I also want to do more for apprenticeships programs. I thank all the unions represented here for the great apprentice programs that you have in place. Thank you.
I want to support apprenticeship programs and skill trainings with business and labor unions because there are going to be good jobs out there for welders and machinists and health technicians and computer coders and so much more.
I want everybody to have the chance to get your piece of the American dream, and I think the American dream is big enough for everybody.
And we’re going to raise the national minimum wage because no one who works full-time should still be in poverty.
As I said in the debate the other night, I want to make sure that we take care of people on Social Security who were low-income workers and women, particularly widows, who lose half of their monthly payment when their husbands die. We’ve got to do more to make sure Social Security provides a decent income for our seniors.

And yes, don’t you think it’s finally time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work?
Now, the equal pay issue is important in and of itself because if you’ve got a mother or a wife or a daughter or a sister who’s working, you want her to be paid fairly. I mean, that’s good for the entire family, right?
But the equal pay issue gets at something even deeper. We’ve got to make sure that women and girls are treated with the dignity and respect in our country that they deserve.
We cannot tolerate the kind of behavior and language we’ve seen from my opponent. He thinks that belittling women makes him bigger, goes after their dignity, their self-worth, and I don’t think there’s a woman anywhere who doesn’t know how that feels.
So we’re going to stand up for everybody – men and women, retirees, the young, millennials – everybody deserves to be treated with respect and dignity.
And I have said repeatedly that we’re going to reform the criminal justice system so that it works fairly for everyone.
And we have to address systemic racism that’s still too big a part of our lives together.
I want to give credit to all the young people and really people of all ages who’ve been marching and speaking out, doing everything you can to make sure that issues of policing and mass incarceration and environmental justice, economic justice, educational equity, gun violence, voting rights, that they get the attention that they deserve because it’s important that we lift these issues up and work to make sure that everybody in our country feels like they are seen and they are heard.
And all the activists and advocates who have challenged us to think about these issues of race and justice and equality and opportunity in new and powerful ways really deserve our appreciation.

I’m going to do everything that I can to lift these issues up because one of my hopes for my presidency will be to root out systemic racism and bigotry and discrimination in whatever form it takes.
So really, when you think about it, my name will be on the ballot but it’s not just me.
I – you know, people say, well, you know, she has lots of plans and all that.
I do. But I also have a lot of humility about this.
I really believe our country is at a turning point, that this is a crossroads election. So yes, my name may be on the ballot but the question really is who are we as a country? What are our values? What kind of future do we want to create together?
It is so easy to get cynical about politics. Believe me, I know that.
But this matters so deeply to our families and our communities and our country and, indeed, our world.
So I want to say something to people who may be reconsidering their support for my opponent. I know you may still have questions for me. I respect that. I want to answer them. I want to earn your vote. I am reaching out to all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, and Independents.
I think America needs every single one of us to bring our energy and our talents, our ambitions, to build that better country.
So I hope that as we move through these next 18 days, everyone thinks seriously about what you really want to see not just in your next president but in your lives, in your jobs, in your education, in our future together.
And the only way we can have that positive, optimistic, unifying future is if all of you help us get there.
Every phone call you make, every door you knock, every voter you register makes a big difference.
So I hope you will give whatever time you can for these last days. You can go to HillaryClinton.com to sign up to volunteer. You can text join – J-O-I-N – to 47246 to join.
With your help, we can elect Democrats up and down the ballot, starting with Ted Strickland and others who are running.
Remember that early in-person – in-person voting in Ohio – began on Oct. 12th and it ends on Nov. 7th. So you have more of a window to vote than a lot of people in other states and I hope you will exercise that.

And I hope you will decide whatever issue you care about, you can almost in your mind, I see that on the ballot – see it next to my name, see it whether you care about climate change and what we’re doing to protect the Great Lakes, including Lake Erie, while creating good-paying clean energy jobs, whether you believe women should be able to make our own health care decisions.
If you believe marriage equality should be protected and that LGBT Americans should be treated equally, if you believe we should do more to stop the opioid epidemic that is destroying lives and communities, that we should do more to help with mental health and make sure that people get the treatment that they deserve, if you believe we need to get the cost of health care premiums, co-pays, and deductibles and prescription drug costs down, if you believe that we should have a foreign policy where we work with our allies, not insult them, and achieve common goals toward peace and prosperity, this is our chance to send a very clear, unmistakable message about what kind of country and future we want.
You know, I have two of the most wonderful grandchildren ever. And I see them whenever I can. I FaceTime with them all the time. But I think about them endlessly because I feel such a sense of responsibility, not just because they’re my grandchildren, obviously, and to help them, but because I want everybody’s children and grandchildren to have the same opportunities to chart your own future, to believe in yourself, to contribute to this great American democracy of ours, to be part of an economy that lifts you up, not drags you down.
I am motivated by my work I’ve done my entire life on behalf of kids and families, from the time I joined the Children’s Defense Fund until today. And I will do whatever I can to make it my mission to give every single person, especially every child and young person, the chance to live up to your God-given potential.
Let’s go out and prove that love trumps hate!
Thank you!

Thank you! Thank you! Wow!
Well, I don’t know about you but I could listen to Elizabeth go on all day.
It is so great being here back in New Hampshire!
I have picked a significant, unruly group of women I went to Wellesley with. Thank you.
Oh and it’s wonderful to be on this college campus and to see so many young people here.
As Maggie and Elizabeth and I were walking out to the stage, a lot of folks were hanging out of the windows and we’re glad that you’ve got the best view of what we’re doing here.
It’s also exciting to be here with two weeks left because this is the most consequential election of our lifetime and to see the energy and the enthusiasm that this crowd displays, I saw it yesterday in North Carolina. I saw it the day before in Ohio.
It really does demonstrate that Americans are looking at what’s at stake and are coming to the conclusion that we all have to be involved – involved in the remaining days of the campaign – and that everyone needs to turn out to vote.
And here in New Hampshire, you have a lot of reasons to vote. You’ve got great candidates for the Congress – Annie Kuster and Carol Shea Porter – who deserve your support.
And you’ve got a great candidate for governor, Colin Van Ostern, thank you.
I know that, you know, Maggie and Elizabeth and I have been out here given the full dose but I hope you will also make sure people know what’s at stake in the governor’s race and in sending these two extraordinary women to the House.
And boy, it is exciting to be here with Maggie and Elizabeth because they are people who fight for you every single day. I know both of these women and it is a privilege to be on this stage with them.
Now, Elizabeth Warren has a track record of making it her mission to stand up against Wall Street, and she’s going to make sure that Wall Street never wrecks Main Street again.
But you may not know that she was the person behind setting up the agency that protects consumers – the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
And it was set up to stand against and do something about the kinds of fraud and abuse we’ve seen from Wells Fargo, and they are on the front lines of returning billions of dollars to Americans who have been cheated and defrauded by big companies, by banks, and others.
You know, in fact, I think it’s fair to say some of the best TV that you can see is on C-SPAN when Elizabeth is going after a bank executive or a regulator.

She’s refusing – refusing – to let them off the hook, and she’s not just speaking for herself, is she? She is speaking for every single American who is frustrated and fed up.
And I am so looking forward to working with her to re-write the rules of our economy to make sure we both grow it and make it fairer for every single person working hard here in America.
I don’t know. We’re up here without our phones so, you know, we can’t check tweets but I kind of expect if Donald heard what she just said, he’s tweeting away. She gets under his thin skin like nobody else.
Whether she’s calling him out about his mysterious tax returns, she exposes him for what he is – temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified to be president of the United States.
And Maggie is going to be a great United States senator for New Hampshire.
You know, you don’t have to take my word or Elizabeth’s word. Look at what she’s already done.
Under Maggie’s leadership, New Hampshire has the lowest unemployment rate in the entire country.
During her governorship, it was ranked as the best state in the country for business.
And she’s done it the New Hampshire way. She has brought people together – Democrats, Republicans, and Independent.
I think she has the biggest legislature probably in the world that she has to deal with. So she has really honed her skills about listening and then trying to work with people.
And she’s taken on issues that really do keep families up at night, from the skyrocketing cost of college and prescription drugs to helping students figure out ways to afford to get their education, to helping those suffering from addiction or mental health, to raising wages for hardworking families.
What I love about Maggie is that she’s independent. She knows how to find common ground and how to stand her ground. And that is exactly the kind of leader we need in the United States Senate.
Because we’ve got to break through the gridlock and the dysfunction that has unfortunately marred Washington.
We’ve got to get back to listening respectfully. We can disagree without being disagreeable.
And that’s why we need leaders like Maggie.
And unlike her opponent, she has never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
She knows he shouldn’t be a role model for our kids or for anybody else for that matter.
So I hope in these next 14 days you do everything you can to support her.
And I also want to say a word about Colin, who I’ve also known for a number of years now.
And Maggie’s leaving some big shoes. She doesn’t look like it but she is. She’s leaving some big shoes to fill as governor. And Colin is the person for that job.
As a member of the executive council – and I remember this because it took a lot of guts – he helped lead the fight to protect funding for Planned Parenthood in New Hampshire against his opponent, by the way.
And he has shown that he will stand up for women’s health 100% of the time, not just when it’s politically convenient.
He also worked with Maggie to cross party lines to help expand Medicaid to more than 50,000 Granite Staters.
And Colin wants to do more to invest in clean energy like wind and solar to hold down energy costs, to create more good jobs here in New Hampshire, and to protect the beautiful environment of this state.
And he will fight to put into action the promise of higher education within reach for more families.
So please, during these next days, make sure you’re doing everything you can for Colin, for Carol, and for Annie.

Now, did anybody see the last debate?
You know, I stood next to Donald Trump in three debates  for 4.5 hours, proving once again I have the stamina to be president.
I tried to use the time I had in all three to talk about what people talk to me about, starting here in New Hampshire and going across the country, because I take it really seriously.
I think the problems that keep you up at night, that stand in the way of your getting ahead and staying ahead, of providing the best opportunity of a good middle class job with a rising income for you and your kids, those are the problems that someone running for president should actually listen to, pay attention to, and come up with solutions for.
So, you know, I do have a lot of plans. I do.
And I get criticized for having so many plans.
Tim Kaine and I have actually written a book. Oh, there’s one copy right there! Oh, another copy. It’s called Stronger Together and we lay out all of our plans for what we want to do if we’re so honored as to be president and vice president.
And you know, I do have this old fashioned idea that if I’m here asking for your vote to be your president, I should tell you what I’m going to do.
And maybe, as I said yesterday in North Carolina, maybe it is a bit of a woman’s things because we make lists. We do. We make lists and we try to write down what we’re supposed to do and then cross them off as we go through the day and the week.
And so, I want you think about our plans as our lists – our lists as a country.
We are going to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. We are going to make college affordable. We are going to lower prescription drug costs, and we’re going to do everything we can to keep faith with what we have said we’re going to do.
What a novel idea. We’re actually going to try to deliver results for you.
But I’ve got to tell you, during that debate, Donald said something. Well, he said a lot of things that were troubling. But he said something truly horrifying. He became the first person running for president – Republican or Democrat – who refused to say that he would respect the results of this election.
Now, that is a direct threat to our democracy. I’m not going to try to call it anything else because that’s what it is.
All this talk about the election being rigged, trying to stir up people who are supporting him at his rallies, that is a direct threat to our democracy.
And I’ve got to tell you, as your Secretary of State, I went 112 countries and I went to countries where people were jailed for being political opponents, where they were exiled, where they were killed. I take this really seriously.
And for me, the peaceful transfer of power is one of the things that makes our country great, something that – something we can’t lose, something we shouldn’t even doubt.
We cannot give into cynicism, and I don’t think we are.
I’ll tell you what’s exciting to me is across this country at the very moment when Donald Trump is making this unprecedented attack on our fundamental values, our institutions, millions of people are standing up for democracy, registering, volunteering, voting early.
So, when you get a little discouraged or you get frustrated by what you see in this campaign, think of this. We have just reached a historic milestone. More than 200 million Americans are now registered to vote.
And most exciting, that includes more than 50 million young people – the biggest number ever.

Now, you only see numbers like this when people are standing up for what they believe in.
And I’m proud to see Americans coming together – Democrats, Republicans, Independents – to reject hate and division.
And you know, we’re seeing that in New Hampshire too.
We are more than our disagreements – we Americans. There is so much more that unites us than divides us.
I’m proud to have the support of more than 150 Republican leaders in this state who put country before party.
But this energy we’re seeing is not just because of what we’re against, as important as that is. It’s because what we’re for.
It’s about fighting for a future where everyone counts, where everyone has a place, and no one is left out or left behind.
Because to me and I hope to you as well, this is about more than winning an election. It’s about the kind of country we want for our kids and our grandkids. That’s what this has to be about.
It’s about the lessons we want to pass on to our sons and our daughters.
You know, we believe we should honor the men and women who fight for our country and that America is safer when we work with our allies to lead the world with strength and intelligence.
Yet, my opponent attacked a grieving Gold Star family whose son died in Iraq.
He has no plan to defeat ISIS.
And just last night, he tweeted that the new effort underway to push the terrorists out of the key city of Mosul is already – and I quote – “a total disaster” and that our country is “looking so dumb”.
Imagine, imagine, you know, this is a guy who said he knows more about ISIS than the generals. I don’t think so.
He’s basically declaring defeat before the battle has even started.
He’s proving to the world what it means to have an unqualified commander in chief.
It’s not only wrong. It’s dangerous. And it needs to be repudiated on Nov. 8th here in New Hampshire and across America.
But just in case you think that this is new for Donald, it shouldn’t surprise you or surprise anybody else, and I’ll tell you why. He has been denigrating America for decades.
It started before he ran against me. It started before President Obama took office.
In fact, back in 1987, he spent $100,000 on an ad in the New York Times criticizing President Reagan.
He said – and I quote – “the world is laughing at America.” Does that sound familiar?
This is someone who roots for failure and takes glee in mocking our country no matter who our president is.
Now, that may be who Donald Trump is but this election is about who we are.
And I want us to remember America is great because America is good. Right?
And as our wonderful First Lady Michelle Obama said right here in New Hampshire, “When they go low, we go high!”
This election poses a very clear choice on the economy.
When the middle class thrives, America thrives.
As Elizabeth said, she is a perfect example of how that works in America. So am I. So are every one of you here.
That’s what I want for every single person, especially young person in America.
With your help, we’re going to not only have Elizabeth back in the Senate but send Maggie, send Carol, send Annie, and then make the biggest investment in new jobs since World War II.
What does that mean? That means jobs in infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our mass transit, our water systems.

There is a lot of great work to be done here.
And guess what? Those are jobs that can’t be exported. They’ve got to be done right here in New Hampshire and across America.
I want us to invest in advanced manufacturing.
And there are – and I know a lot of skeptics about that. They say, “Well, we can’t compete in manufacturing anymore.”
Well, I’ll tell you what. I don’t want us competing with low-wage jobs. I want us competing for the high-wage jobs.
Germany is a major exporter of advanced manufacturing products. I want to compete with Germany and countries like that – precision machining, 3D printing.
I want us to invest more in technology, innovation, and research, and yes, in clean energy because we’re going to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
I think we can deploy a half a billion more solar panels within the first four years and enough clean energy to power every home by the end of 10 years.
That’s what I want people to be working on and thinking about and striving to achieve.
And I am really excited about what we can do to make sure every young American is prepared.
I want to start in the early years of life, in early education, universal pre-K. I want kids to be prepared to succeed.
Because we are in a competition and you know what? I want us to step up and compete and win.
And I want our schools – I want kids to have good teachers and good schools in every zip code, and I want to be a good partner with our teachers and our educators here in New Hampshire.
And I want to bring back technical education to high school. I think we really shut the door on too many young people who could have gotten skills that would have given them the chance to get ahead.
And working with our community colleges, we need to make sure that every young person and every person coming back to upgrade or change skills can go to a community college.
And yes, we are going to make four-year college affordable.
You know, just this week, a new report came out showing that New Hampshire students have very high levels of debt, and I know Maggie has been fighting that. And she’s had a moratorium and she’s done what she could at the state level.
But we’ve got to work together at the national level to make this happen for students in New Hampshire, families in New Hampshire.
So, after our primary was over, and you know what? I was really proud. I was really proud of the campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran. And it was a campaign about ideas, not insults, and that’s what campaigns should be about.
And after it was over, Bernie and I got together, we put our heads together and we came up with a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition free for any families making less than $125,000 a year.
And if you make more than that, it will be debt-free. In other words, pay what you can but let’s not have kids and families going into debt to get an education.
This should be an investment that we make on behalf of them and our country’s future.
And no matter where you go – to a great school like this or anywhere else – we will help you pay down your student debt.
We’ll make it easier because we’re going to make it as a percentage of your income so you’re never on the hook for more than you can afford.
And if you’re interested to see how much you and your family could save, you can actually go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator to see how much you can save under this plan that we are proposing.
Now, I think in addition to growing the economy, we need to do a lot more on small business.
Two-thirds of new jobs will come from small business, so we’re going to be just focused on how we make it possible to start and grow your small business.
And then we do have to make the economy fairer and that starts with raising the national minimum wage because if you work full-time. I’m talking about full-time workers. You shouldn’t still be in poverty at the end.
Work should provide a ladder of opportunity for people willing to work for it to climb. Right?

And we are going to guarantee equal pay.
We’re going to make affordable child care so nobody pays more than 10% of your income for child care.
We’re going to work for paid family leave.
Because this is the way families are today. You know, we’re not living in the 1950s. Families are under new stresses and strains.
And I meet so many who are really just at the edge. They’re making all they can make. One parent working full-time. Two parents working full-time. Sometimes part-time on top of full-time.
And the other day, Tim Kaine and I were in Pittsburgh and there was a long line of people, a big overflow, which you know we couldn’t get into the main room where we were. So Tim was talking to the families there. And there was a woman holding her three-year-old child – a daughter – I think.
And Tim was shaking hands and the woman looked and she said, “I came here hoping I could tell you or Secretary Clinton that I had my baby three years ago and the day after I had my baby, I was fired because I called and asked if I could have a few weeks because it had been a difficult pregnancy and my baby was fine but not all that she needed to be. I got fired.”
And Tim came in, and you know, he’s such a wonderful man. What a fine, fine human being. And he said to me, “You know, there are reasons everyday why I get so motivated in this election and I just have another reason” and he told me that story.
I think your president should care about that.
I think your president should wake up everyday thinking, “Okay, how do I help empower people to make the most out of their own lives? You know, how do I knock down the barriers that give you the chance to go as far as your hard work and talent will take you?”
And then sometimes people say, “Well, how are you going to get all this done?”
And I have proposed plans that do not add a penny to the debt because I see some of my longtime friends who were back in the ’92 campaign, you know, when my husband ended up, we had a balanced budget and a surplus. And actually, we were on the way to paying down the national debt.
But here’s what happened. What happened is trickle down economics came back.
So here’s what I’m going to do.
We’re going to ask the wealthy to finally pay their fair share.
We’re going to close the loopholes.
We’re going to end the fact that millionaires can pay a lower tax rate than a nurse or a teacher or a police officer.
We’re going to make big banks pay for the risks they pose to our economy because Elizabeth is absolutely right. No, no bank is too big to fail and no one should be above the law. So we’re going to enforce that.
And contrast that with Donald Trump. He believes that if you give trillions – and that’s trillions with a “T” in tax cuts to wealthy millionaires, billionaires, and corporations, everything will work out. Well, it will for him. That’s trickle down economics on steroids.
And he would wipe away the tough new rules that President Obama imposed on Wall Street.
He would eliminate the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that Elizabeth did so much to create.
And you know, that was bad enough. But then in the debates, we learned he hasn’t paid any income tax for years.
So he hasn’t paid a penny to support our military, our veterans, Pell Grants for kids to get an education, health or anything else.

And his explanation was, well, he lost a billion dollars in a year.
Now, I’ve pondered this. I have really pondered this.
He actually said it made him smart not to pay income taxes. But how smart are you to lose a billion dollars in a year?
And has anybody here ever been to a casino? He lost a billion dollar running casinos. Who does that? I’ve never heard of anybody.
So we’ve got to make it clear that Donald is not on the side of American workers or American families.
You know, for all of his talk about putting America first, he makes his products in at least 12 other countries.
He stiffs small businesses, mom and pop contractors who work for him.
My dad was a small business owner. He worked really hard. I’m just glad he never got a contract from Donald Trump. Because it was hard work. And people who do that work should be rewarded, not taken advantage of. So we know a lot about how Donald Trump works.
And today, today, we heard yet another story. It’s about a maintenance worker at one of his golf courses. This maintenance worker told his co-workers he was gay and they started harassing him. They used anti-gay slurs to his face. They threw rocks and golf balls at him. His supervisors saw it and did nothing and it got so bad he wound up in the hospital. Finally, he went to the police for help. He couldn’t go back to work because he was too scared for his safety and then he was fired by Trump’s golf club.
Now, this is a heart-wrenching story on a lot of levels. For starter, it’s a painful reminder of the harassment, violence, and discrimination that too many LGBT Americans still face everyday.
And it is deeply disturbing that instead of stepping in to stop the tormentors, Trump’s golf club turned on the victim for coming forward.
If that’s how Donald Trump runs his business, what does that say about how he would run our country.
So my friends, there are lots of reasons – so many – to take this election seriously.
But here’s what I want you to know. Of course, I want you to vote for all of us, but more than that, I want you to vote for yourselves and for your families and for your hope for our future together.
Because if you believe women and girls should be treated with dignity and respect and that women should be able to make our own health care decisions and that marriage equality should be protected and that we have to take on the epidemic of substance abuse, disorders, and addiction, if you believe in a foreign policy where we work with our allies, not insult them, and achieve common goals toward peace and prosperity, then you have to vote.
All of these issues are on the ballot this November and I believe with all my heart that we will after this election get together to help heal the divides that have sprung up and are so painful among us.
So, please, register and vote on the same day. Go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place.
Come help us these last few weeks. Go to HillaryClinton.com. Sign up to volunteer. Take out your phone text JOIN – J-O-I-N – to 47246 and get everybody you know to come out and vote.
I think this election is going to turn on who is motivated to vote, so we need each and everyone of you to do everything you can…[inaudible]…everybody you know that your future is at stake.
If you want to be part of a positive, optimistic, confident, unifying future, please come out and vote on Nov. 8th here in New Hampshire and prove once for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

…Thank you! Wow! Thank you all! What a great way to celebrate my birthday being here in Tampa!
I am so so grateful to Jose for that wonderful introduction. He’s an incredibly talented chef but more than that, I have to say he’s a humanitarian. He just came back from Haiti once again where he goes periodically to help feed people. He’s been doing it ever since the terrible earthquake going to help people in remote villages. And he does that all over the world when it comes to making sure that there are clean cook stoves so that people can cook, primarily women and children, without fear of getting sick from inhaling all the smoke.
I enlisted Jose’s help when I was Secretary of State on the Clean Cook Stoves Initiative.
And as you heard, he’s also a proud immigrant, and he is standing up to Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric and he’s doing it in a very courageous way because he sacrificed his business. He’d been asked by the Trump Organization to put a restaurant into the new hotel that Trump was talking on TV today in Washington. And after Jose heard the kinds of things that Donald Trump was saying about immigrants, he said, “No, I refuse to open a restaurant in that hotel.”
That is really gutsy.
And today was a perfect time to have Jose be with us. Because as I said, Donald Trump is taking time off the campaign trail to officially open the hotel.
And yesterday here in Florida, he took time out to invite the press to listen to his employees talk about what a great boss he is while he was watching and listening to them.
And today, in opening that hotel, I think it’s important to note that he once again relied on undocumented workers – the same people he has been insulting and demonizing throughout this campaign.
So like with so much else that Donald Trump says, he says one thing and then he does something different.
Many of the products in the hotel were made overseas rather than here in the United States, and he even sued the District of Columbia to pay lower taxes. That is the way that he does business.
Now, we’ve actually learned in this campaign that Donald Trump is the poster boy for everything wrong with our economy.
He refuses to pay workers and contractors from Atlantic City to Miami to Las Vegas.
He stiffs small businesses. I take that one personally because my dad was a small businessman.

And I’ve met so many people who did projects for Donald Trump – you know, provided pianos for one of his casinos, installed drapes for one of his hotels, laid the marble, put in the glass, washed the dishes, painted – and then weren’t paid.
I just think that is fundamentally wrong and that is not the kind of experience we need in the Oval Office.
…So my friends, here’s the advice that I got. It is a beautiful day in Tampa but it’s warm. And some of you have been here a while. Right? And I’m watching the flags. So long as they’re waving, I know there’s a breeze. If they stop waving, I’m really going to cut this short.
Let me start by thanking you. Thanking you for being here.
Thank you! Thank you!
Well, I’ll tell you if I ever need a pick-up, I’m coming back to Tampa, mayor.
And you know, with 13 days left in this election, we cannot stop for a minute. No complacency here. Nobody flagging.
We’ve got to get everybody out to vote, and I hope in addition to the people that I’ve mentioned, someone who’s not here, I hope you will support. That is Congressman Patrick Murphy to send him to the United States Senate.
I think you’ll be pleased because he’s an independent voice. He’s a problem-solver. He believes in comprehensive immigration reform. He has stood with Planned Parenthood against the attacks that it has suffered. He’s even brought Democrats and Republicans together to try to protect our environment and fund everglade restoration. He’ll stand up to the gun lobby and advocate for common sense gun safety measures. He’ll defend Social Security and Medicare, not cutting or privatizing those two essential programs.
So please, do your best to make sure we send Patrick Murphy to the Senate.
Now, I’ve got to ask you. Anybody see the last debate?
You know, I have now stood next to Donald Trump for 4.5 hours, proving conclusively that I have the stamina to do the job.
And every time he says one of those outrageous things that he does have – yeah, “wrong!” – that he does have a way of saying, I just keep remembering Michelle Obama’s words, “When he goes low, we go high!”
But I’ve got to say, he said something in the last debate we’ve never heard from anybody running for president. He basically said that he’s not sure – he refused to say that he would respect the results of the election.
Now, this is a guy who said the Emmy’s were rigged, so you can’t really take what he says very seriously.
But this is a problem because the first thing a president does at noon on Jan. 20th is to take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.
And if you are casting doubts, you want to keep people in suspense as to whether you will respect the outcome of an election, that is contrary to who we are as Americans.
We have our elections. We’ve had them from George Washington forward. We’re going to keep having them and show what a democracy looks like to the rest of the world.

I believe strongly that the American people are going to reject this dark divisive vision of America.
And it’s happening, my friends. We have reached a milestone. More than 200 million Americans are registered to vote. That’s the biggest number ever.
And that number includes 50 million young people.
And you know what else? More than 10 million people have already voted, including 2 million right here in Florida.
I’m hearing some great stories from people. Let me just tell you one.
It’s about Stephen [sp] from St. Augustine. He’s been fighting a rare form of Leukemia and heart disease. He’s been in and out of the hospital a dozen times in the last two years. But he knows how important his vote is.
So, I heard yesterday he ditched his oxygen tank, which I would not have recommended, clung to his walker, stood in line so he could cast his vote for a better America.
And if Stephen could do that, nobody has any excuses.
And I think this extends not just to Democrats but to Republicans and Independents, and I am proud to have support from Republicans and Independents here across Florida and across America who agree with me that we should reject hate and division.
We have seen Donald Trump insult nearly every person in America.
And I just find that so intolerable because look at this diverse crowd. Look at Tampa. It’s a cosmopolitan city.
Florida is paving the way for what our country will look like, and we need to be lifting each other, listening to each other, respecting each other, not sowing seeds of hatred and bigotry.
And I think one of my biggest jobs after this election will be bringing our country together and I’m going to need your help.
We’re going to get the economy working for everybody, not just the people at the top, with new jobs in infrastructure – that rail, that system, Bob, that you want? We’re going to get it because it would help you so much.
Think of the people we’d put to work – technology, innovation, research, advanced manufacturing, and yes, small business. I want to be the best small business president you can have to help people start and grow their businesses.
But we’re also going to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century. I know we can create millions of jobs and we can protect Florida, especially coastal Florida, and we could protect our planet at the same time.
You know, you’re already seeing the results of climate change here in Florida.
You know, I was just in Miami and they actually have flooding on sunny days with no rain. People are calling 311 because they think a water main broke. But it’s the oceans rising.
So I know that there is no state that could benefit more from a clean energy agenda than Florida and that’s exactly what we’re going to do.
We’re also going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
If your family makes less than $125,000, which is most families in America, you’re not going to have to pay a penny to go to a public college or university.
If your family makes more than that, you’re not going to have to go into debt. Pay what you can afford and then we’re going to make sure you can go without getting a big debt because that drags people down.
And for people who already have debt, we are going to help you refinance it and pay it off.
And I want to say something to all of the teachers and educators. I want to work with you and be a good partner with you.
And I think there should be more than one way – more than just a four-year college degree – to get a good job with a good middle class life for you and your families.

So let’s invest in more technical education in high school, in our community colleges. Let’s have more apprenticeship programs – labor and business together.
But while we grow the economy, let’s make it fairer. We need to raise the national minimum wage so that people who work full-time aren’t left in poverty.
You know, I’ve got to tell you, I was raised to believe in hard work. My grandfather was a factory worker. My dad had a small business. And we really believe you’ve got to work for what you get in life. Right?
But if you’re working, you shouldn’t be at the point where you cannot even afford food or clothes or rent at the end of the year.
And isn’t it finally time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work?
You know, this is not just a women’s issue. This is a family issue.
If you’ve got a mother, a wife, a sister or a daughter working, it’s your issue.
And unlike my opponent, we’re going to ask the wealthy – the millionaires and the billionaires – to pay their fair share because we’re going to close the loopholes and make sure no multi-millionaire ever pays a lower tax rate than a nurse or a teacher or a police officer or a firefighter.
And I will not raise taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year.
So when you go to the polls, vote to grow the economy, more jobs with rising incomes. Vote to make the economy fairer.
And compare that with what my opponent has proposed. He really believes if you give trillions – that’s trillion with a “T” – trillions in tax cuts to the wealthy – millionaires, billionaires, big corporations, everything will trickle down.
Now, we know that doesn’t work. We’ve seen it.
And it’s pretty rich coming from a guy who claims to be so rich, who hasn’t paid a dime in federal income taxes in 20 years.
He says not paying taxes makes him smart. Well, I don’t know how smart you have to be to lose a billion dollars in one year.
And besides, what kind of genius loses money running a casino, for heaven’s sake?
Actually, it sounds like a people have been in casinos here.
But you know, this means he’s contributed zero. Okay?
He actually has the gall to call our military a disaster. Not only is he wrong, but what right does he have to say that. He hasn’t contributed a penny to our military, not a penny to our veterans, not a penny to health care or education, not a penny to highways or infrastructure.
This is a false – false – charge that he makes about all the problems in our country.
And I’ll tell you something. We did a little research. He’s been denigrating America for decades.
This didn’t start with his birther lie against President Obama. Didn’t even start running against me.
Back in 1987, he took out a $100,000 ad in the New York Times criticizing President Reagan. He said our leaders were the laughing stock of the world.
So this is a guy who criticizes everybody but himself.
And at some point, you’ve got to say, “Wait a minute. We’re better than that. We are stronger than that.”
We want to move forward – forward – into the future with confidence and optimism. And that’s what we’re offering in this campaign.
I’ve got to tell you it is not just what we’re against that should motivate you to go to the polls, it’s what we are for.
And I believe strongly that what we’re for will make it possible for all of us and especially our kids and our grandkids to have the best future.

America’s best days can still be ahead of us.
But we can’t make any of this happen if we don’t have you voting.
Now, Donald Trump says he can still win and he’s right. That’s why it’s so important everyone gets out and votes.
And here in Florida? You know, in a lot of places you can only vote on Election Day. But here in Florida, voting couldn’t be easier.
Early voting began on Monday in South Florida. It goes through Sunday, Nov. 6th around the state. You can go to any early voting site between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.
In fact, the county center on East Kennedy Blvd. is just a 10-minute walk from here.
You can go vote right after this event, and we’ll have staff ready to help you get there.
And you can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place and make a plan to vote.
But I also hope you will volunteer these last two weeks. We’re reaching out to everybody so go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to volunteer. Take out your phone and text JOIN and that 47246. We can use you. We’re making millions of phone calls in Florida. We’re knocking on maybe by the time we finish millions of doors.
We don’t want anybody to be left out or left behind because on Jan. 20th, America will have a new president.
Now, I’ve got to say – so I got to say to you that, you know, change is inevitable in life. Right? And so the real question is what kind of change are we going to have?
And I want you to talk to anybody you know who’s either thinking of not voting or maybe thinking of voting for my opponent.
No, I’m serious. I’m serious.
You know, after this election, if I’m fortunate enough to be elected, we’re going to reach out to everybody. Right?
And ask the people you’re talking to what kind of change they really want because I don’t think most Americans want the kind of divisive and dark change Donald Trump is offering – mass deportations that will rip families apart, a repeal of gun-free school zones on day one, going back to the day when insurance companies could discriminate against us if we have a pre-existing condition, letting Wall Street write its own rules, denying the science of climate change, rowing back marriage equality, defunding Planned Parenthood, the hugest tax breaks ever for the wealthy, and the broad abandoning of our alliances and allowing more countries to get nuclear weapons.
Now that may be change but boy that’s not the change we need.
And my vision is different. It’s more hopeful, optimistic, and unifying.
I want us to be a country where every student can afford to go to college if that’s what you choose.
I want us to be a country where millions of people are working in good high-paying jobs and in new industries like clean energy and advanced manufacturing.
I want us to be a country where hardworking immigrants who pay taxes – and by the way, one half of undocumented workers paid federal income taxes, which means they are paying more federal income taxes than Donald Trump paid.
And a country where we not only have equal pay for our work but affordable child care, where we’re respected in the world working with our allies to defeat terrorism and stop the spread of nuclear weapon.
So yes, change is coming. The choice is yours about what kind of change we’ll have.
And I hope you will choose to be part of this campaign because it’s not just about winning on Nov. 8th as important as that is. It is about getting to work because I do believe we are stronger together.
Tim Kaine and I wrote a book laying out our agenda because I think you deserve to know what I will try to do as your president.
So if you will help, we will come together to give every American the chance to chart your own future and contribute to our great country.
Let’s prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you!

Hello, Broward County!
Well, it is so great to be back in Florida. There are just 14 days – two weeks from today – the most important election in our lifetimes.
I’m so grateful to see all of you and I want to the elected officials who are here – Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Congressman Alcee Hastings, Congress Ted Deutch, Commissioner Mark Bogen, and others who are here along with Sen. Bill Nelson’s wonderful wife, Grace Nelson.
So we are glad you are all here with me.
And I’ve got to tell you, I was thrilled to be introduced by the person I hope will be the next senator from the great state of Florida, Congressman Patrick Murphy.
You know, I think Patrick is the kind of senator that Florida needs and deserves because he will help us break through gridlock and create more good jobs with rising incomes.
And Patrick knows we have to build an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down.
I also appreciate the fact that we now are seeing an emerging bipartisan consensus that we need to fix our broken criminal justice system. Do you agree?
But it’s going to take strong and committed leaders like Patrick Murphy who are ready to show up and fight hard and work to get this done.
And this is important, my friends, unlike his opponent, Patrick Murphy has never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
I think Florida deserves a senator who’s going to fight for comprehensive immigration reform that will keep families together, against a deportation force – this is so unimaginable – of law enforcement officials to go door-to-door, house-to-house, business-to-business, school-to-school rounding up 11 million people. I think that is so wrong and it is not going to happen in America.
So you deserve also a senator who actually believes climate change is real as opposed to someone who every time he’s asked says, “Well, I’m not a scientist.” And I always wonder why don’t you talk to a scientist? Like start here at Broward College, you could talk to scientists.
And you deserve a senator who will never say that Social Security and Medicare have – and this is a quote – “weakened us as a people”.
His solution? Patrick’s opponent’s solution is to privatize Medicare.
That is exactly the right response. But don’t boo. Vote. Right?
And you deserve a senator who would never support cutting $360 million from Florida’s schools because Patrick knows every child in Florida deserves a world class education.
So my friends, Patrick Murphy is a smart, tough-minded legislator and an independent voice. That’s what we need more of in Washington – people like Patrick who are going to get up everyday and go to work for you, a better life for you and your families instead of blocking progress at every turn, listening to the special interests and powerful forces that really are not interested in what it’s going to take for every one of you to get ahead and stay ahead.
So please when you get out and vote, please remember you can send Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate and you will be glad you did.
Now, there’s an overflow crowd outside and I’m so sorry they can’t be in but I’m told that they can hear us and maybe even see us and I want thank them for coming as well.
Now, I’ve got to ask you, did anybody see the last debate?
Well, the good news was it was the last debate.
Oh, well, thank you!
You know, that last – thank you!
Yeah, you know, you’re right. That last debate was like an early birthday president. Right?
But here’s what I wanted you to remember. I stood next to Donald Trump for 4.5 hours, proving once again I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
You know, I tried as much as I could to talk about all the issues that are on your minds that I believe we can work together to improve.
And in fact, my wonderful running mate and I, Sen. Tim Kaine, wrote a book called Stronger Together, and we put all of our policies in it because I want you to know what we’re going to try to do if we’re so fortunate enough to be the next president and vice president.

And I think it’s important because I want you to have confidence that we’re going to work everyday to implement the plans that we have put forth.
And I tried in the debate to draw the contrast with Donald Trump, who doesn’t have very many plans.
You know, I’ve tried to run a campaign based on issues. He’s run a campaign based on insults and so in the debate we didn’t have a lot to talk about other than he continued true to form to throw out his insults.
But in that last debate, he said something that I found horrifying. Well, he said a lot of things. But there was one thing in particular that I wanted to point out because no presidential candidate, Republican or Democrat, has ever said this.
He refused to say that he would respect the outcome of this election.
Now, I guess we shouldn’t be too surprised. This is the same guy who said he thought the Emmy’s were rigged against him.
But this is serious.
You know, on Jan. 20th, the first thing a president does is to take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution, and I have serious doubts about whether Donald Trump even understands what that means.
In America, we don’t say we’re going to keep you in suspense about whether we will respect the outcome of an election.
We have free and fair elections and the peaceful transfer of power. That is one thing that makes America great. It makes America who we are.
And we don’t impose religious tests on our borders because we are a country that was founded on religious liberty.
And we don’t punish newspapers or journalists that try to cover the news or are critical of politicians or threaten to restrict the First Amendment because our democracy depends on a free press.
And we don’t incite violence and turn people against each other. We respect the open exchange of ideas that a democracy depends on.
You know, I’ve got to say, I bet some of you or maybe your parents or grandparents came from places where none of that was true. Right?
There is a reason why America is the greatest and longest lasting democracy the world has ever known because we believe no matter what you look like or where your parents were born or who you love, you have the right to be treated equally and fairly in the United States.
And Donald Trump is attacking everything that has set our country apart for 240 years.
Now, after spending his entire campaign attacking one group of Americans after another, immigrants, African-Americans, Latinos, women, POWs, Muslims, people with disabilities, now his final target is democracy itself.
So here’s what I want you to know, in the next four years, we are going to change some things in America. Right?
I do want to get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top and we’re going to do that along with other positive changes.
But we are not going to change the fundamental values that made America the greatest nation in the history of the world.
You know, I think it all started – I think this all started when George Washington refused to become a king. Right?
Now, Donald Trump probably would have called him a loser. Instead, that was one of the most important decisions any president has ever made. Eight years. It’s time move on.
We fought a revolution so that we would not have a king. We would not be subjects. We would be independent citizens. I cherish that idea.
So here’s the good news. Americans are coming together. At the very moment when Donald Trump was making an unprecedented attack on our democracy, millions of people are registering, voting early, and volunteering in this campaign.

And here’s something very exciting. We have reached a milestone. More than 200 million Americans are now registered and that includes 50 million young people – the most ever in history.
And you know what? More than 6 million people have already voted and more than 1 million of them are right here in Florida.
So, I think you only see numbers like this when people are standing up for what they really believe in and that includes not just Democrats but Republicans and Independents coming together to reject hate and division. And I am so excited about what that means.
But the energy we are seeing across Florida and America is not just because of what we are against. It’s about what we’re for. It really is. It’s about fighting for that future where everyone counts, everyone has a place, and no one is left out or behind.
But I want you to know we still have a lot of work to do. I feel good but boy I am not taking anything for granted. I’m going to work as hard as I can between now and the close of the election two weeks from today.
And you know, it’s so important for Florida. There are so many issues that we need to remind people about.
You know, last time I was here, I campaigned with Al Gore and he said a lot about the climate crisis and you know why? Because we’re seeing the reality of climate change everyday in Florida.
We are seeing areas in Miami even on sunny days without a drop of rain where the streets are flooding and the ocean is rising.
And what we’ve got to do is to make sure that this issue – fighting climate change, creating clean, renewable energy jobs – stays at the top of the priorities and that’s why you need a new senator like Patrick Murphy.
I have to say nobody should want to wake up on Nov. 9th and wondered whether there was more you could have done. I hope that you will wake up on Nov. 9th proud that you took a stand and voted for an America that belongs to all of us, where we set big goals and where we work together to achieve them.
I’ve got to tell you I believe America is great because America is good.
And I want to tell you one other thing. I want to say one other thing that’s really very important to me. We should honor the men and women in uniform who fight for our country.
That’s why I was so appalled when Donald Trump tweeted that the new effort underway to push the terrorists out of the key city of Mosul is already – and I quote him – a “total disaster” and that our country is again “looking dumb”.
Really? He’s declaring defeat before the battle has even started? He’s proving once again he is unqualified to be commander-in-chief of our military.
Here’s another example. He was asked if he would defend our allies. He said well first he’d want to know if they made any payments to us to defend them.
And when asked specifically about Israel, he said, and I quote again, he “would love to be neutral”.
Now, we can’t have a president who says he’s neutral on Monday, pro-Israel on Tuesday, and who knows what on Wednesday because in his mind everything is negotiable.
I have a different view. We stand with our allies. We stand with those who will help us defeat terrorism.
So I get pretty excited about what we could do together.
And with your help we’re going to make the biggest investments in new jobs since World War II – jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing and clean renewable energy and small businesses.
I want us to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.

We can create millions of jobs and protect our planet at the same time.
And I’ve got to say no state, no state should care more about this issue than Florida. Right?
And, you know, I’ll tell you something. It’s kind of sad, to be honest with you. I’ve traveled all over the country and in New Jersey and Massachusetts, they have more solar power than the Sunshine State. Why? Well, because you have a governor and a legislature who like your current senator doesn’t want to believe the science of climate change, doesn’t see the opportunity that Florida has to be literally the global leader in clean energy.
And so I want to deploy a half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home in America within 10 years.
And we are also going to strengthen education at every level, starting with universal pre-K and working with our teachers to make sure that every child has a good school with good teachers in every zip code.
And here’s what I want all the students to hear. We’re going to make college more affordable for everyone.
You know, after our primary, which was hard-fought, and I was proud of the primary we ran because it was about issues, Sen. Sanders and I got together came up with a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free for any families making less than $125,000 a year.
That’s the vast majority of families, and if you’re over that, we’re going to make it debt-free. So pay what you can afford but I don’t want to see young people and their families going into debt. I view this as an investment, and that’s why we’re going to make it easier for you to afford to pay back your college debt, pay it down and pay it off.
And I also want more pathways to good jobs that don’t require a four-year college degree. Let’s return technical education to high schools. Let’s do more with our community colleges. Let’s have more apprenticeship programs so that everybody has a chance at a good job.
And you know, in addition to making the economy grow and making sure people are ready with the skills to do these jobs, I want to make it fairer. That’s why I want to raise the national minimum wage.
If you work full-time, you shouldn’t still be in poverty.
And don’t you think it’s finally maybe past time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work?
And you know, I always tell crowds this is not a woman’s issue. It’s a family issue. If you have a wife, a mother, a sister, or a daughter working, it’s your issue. And that’s why we have got to get this fixed once and for all.
And let’s make child care affordable and let’s have more profit-sharing and let’s do the kinds of things that will lift everybody up.
Now, you know, when I talk about raising equal pay for women as one of my primary issues, you know, Donald Trump or somebody always says, “Well, there she goes playing the woman card.”
And I got to tell you. I don’t believe that’s what it is. I think we’re playing the smart card because we want everybody’s income to go up. That’s how we’re going to get this economy really moving forward creating new jobs.
And so if that’s creating the woman card, you know what we say, “Deal me in.”
I’ve also said I will pledge not to do anything that would raise taxes on people making less than $250,000 a year because we don’t need to do that. We can go where the money is – the millionaires and the billionaires, the corporations to make them pay their fair share to support the kind of growth that we need in our economy.
We’re going to close the loopholes and make sure no multi-millionaire can get away with paying a lower rate than a nurse or a police officer or a teacher.

Now, remember when we learned in one of the debates that Donald Trump hadn’t paid any federal taxes? For about 20 years is the best guess we’ve got.
And his excuse – I loved his excuse. His excuse was, well, he lost a billion dollars in a year.
I have been really pondering this. How does anybody lose a billion dollars in a year, especially when you’re running casinos?
Think about it. Has anybody here ever been to a casino? Well, you know, usually they say the house wins. So, Donald Trump said it was smart for him to avoid paying taxes. Well, if losing a billion dollars is smart, I think that’s kind of upside down and backwards.
I think people should be working hard to make their incomes to support their families, and that’s what we’re going to do because we don’t want the kind of values that Donald Trump used in running his business to be in our government.
He stiffs – he stiffs small businesses. My dad was a small business owner. Donald Trump has refused to pay all kinds of folks – workers, small businesses installing drapes or marble or glass or where he bought pianos. He didn’t pay them. He just doesn’t pay them and he gets away with it because he turns and he says to these small businesses, “Well, go ahead and sue me.”
Well, my dad, because he was a small businessman, I know he could never have afforded that so I’m just glad he never got a contract from Donald Trump because our family would have been hurt by that.
So here’s the bottom line and here’s what I need you to do. We have got to get everybody you know to turn out and vote.
You have early voting now and it’s going to be much easier for some of you to vote early.
And if you believe in any of the issues that we have talked about in this campaign, if you believe that women and girls should be treated with respect, if you believe that marriage equality should be protected, if you believe in science and believe we should take action, if you believe America belongs to everybody willing to work for it and we should stand up against any kind of negative attacks, then I hope you will come out and vote because it’s going to be a close election.
Pay no attention to the polls. Don’t get complacent. Because we’ve got to turn people out.
So I’m asking you to vote for me. I’m asking you to send Patrick Murphy to the Senate. I’m asking you most importantly to vote for yourselves because really that’s what is at stake.
So early voting began here in South Florida yesterday. It goes through Sunday, Nov. 6th.
You can go to your early voting site in your county between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.
In fact, you can go across the street right now to the North Regional Library and cast your ballot today.
And we have volunteers and staff ready to escort you so hey go ahead and vote now.
And you can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place and make sure you have a plan to vote.
But don’t stop there. If you will join us in these next two weeks, every phone call you make, every door you knock on will make a difference.
So please, go to HillaryClinton.com sign up to volunteer. Take out your phone, text join – J-O-I-N to 47246 and get involved.

Because the bigger the turnout, a statement we will make about the kind of country we are and the future we want to build together.
Now, let me just end by saying that people ask me all the time, you know, what motivates you? How do you do this day after day?
You know, look, I love this country and I feel blessed. I feel blessed. And I want everybody to have the same chance to go after your part of the American dream and I think the American dream is big enough for everybody.
And I think a lot about my two grandchildren because obviously I would do anything to help them but it’s not just them, I want to help everybody’s children and grandchildren because the kind of country we will have when they become adults will be affected by the decisions we make now on education, on health care, on ending the epidemic of gun violence, on getting the cost of prescription drugs down, on preserving and protecting Social Security and Medicare doing what we must to make sure we’re passing on a country that provides the same level of opportunity to all who come after us.
So please join me. This is bigger than me. It’s bigger than any of us. It’s even bigger than Donald Trump, if you can believe it.
This is a crossroads election that’s going to determine so much about what kind of country we have in the decades ahead.
I want to wake up in the White House with your help making it my mission to do everything I can to give every person and particularly every child the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.
If you will stand with me, if you will work with me over the next two weeks, let’s go out and build the kind of future we want for ourselves, for our kids.
And let’s prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all very much!

Hello, Winston-Salem!
Hello Wake Forest!
It is so great to be here in this beautiful city at this extraordinary time and to have a chance to be with so many, including the Wake Forest family.
And it doesn’t get any better than being here with our most amazing First Lady, Michelle Obama.
I want to thank everyone who has filled this arena and I especially want to thank Dr. Hatch and the staff team and students at Wake Forest University.
I will never forget visiting here with the legendary Maya Angelou, one of the powerful voices our country has ever heard.
So I couldn’t think of a better place to come back to with another woman whose voice we need now more than ever.
I want to say what I think is obvious but can’t be said enough, and that is this may be one of the most, if not the most, important elections of our lifetimes no matter our age.
But for young people it will be so consequential because every election is about the future, and this one is about whether we build on the progress we’ve made, the legacy that President Obama has built or rip it away and go backwards.

So we have a lot of work to do and I don’t mean just in the presidential race.
Let’s be sure to elect Roy Cooper the next governor of North Carolina.
He will always put the people of North Carolina first and he will repeal HB 2 because he knows that discrimination is wrong. It’s bad for business. And it’s against North Carolina’s values.
And let’s send Deborah Ross to the United States Senate.
You know, she will be an independent voice for the working families of this state, and she will help break through the gridlock in Washington.
And unlike her opponent, Deborah Ross has never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
And remember, it is not just Roy’s name and Deborah’s name or my name that’s going to be on the ballot.
So much of what we care about, so much that’s at stake in the election is too.
Voting rights are at stake, and if you care about this sacred right and want to make sure our leaders of both parties do their part to protect and strengthen it, not chip away at it, you’ve got to vote in this election.
And so I hope after all North Carolina has gone through with the efforts to suppress people’s votes, you will turn out in the biggest numbers ever to say “No, we demand the right to vote.”
And supporting our veterans is at stake.
If you believe that America should stand with those who’ve served because they served us, then you’ve got to vote.
And so when you think about yourselves, your families, people you know who’ve worn the uniform of our country, the best way to make clear that we respect the military and we will do everything we can to make sure they and their families have what they need as they sacrifice for us is to show up and vote.
And you know, climate change is at stake. Now, I shouldn’t have to say this in 2016 but I will. If you believe in science, right? And you know that climate change is real and demands action right now, you’ve got to show up and vote in this election.
Immigration is at stake. If you believe that we need to fix our broken system, keep families together, and give people who love America a path to citizenship, you’ve got to vote.
And you know, marriage equality is at stake too. If you believe everyone deserves to be treated equally in America no matter who they are or who they love, then you’ve got to turn out and vote in this election.
Good jobs that pay good wages are at stake. Investing in our roads and our bridges and our water systems and all the work that needs to be done in our country. That really matters, and we can put millions of people to work and have a more competitive economy.
That’s why we’ve proposed a very big jobs program because I don’t want anybody willing to work in this country not to have a good job with a rising income to support themselves and their families.
If you believe that, then you’ve got to come out and vote.
And particularly for all of the students here, affordable college education is at stake. And not only that relief from student debt that you already have is at stake.
So if you believe as we do that everyone should be able to afford to go to college and graduate and that everyone should have a chance to pay down and pay off your debt, then you’ve got to get out and vote in this election.

And you know, dignity for women and girls – again, I wish I didn’t have to say this. But indeed, dignity for women and girls is also on the ballot in this election.
And I want to thank our First Lady for her eloquent, powerful defense of that basic value.
So I think you’re getting the idea here that I believe everything we care about is at stake in this election so you’ve got to vote and get your friends and your families and your neighbors to vote too.
And don’t just take it from me because I think you’ve heard some really compelling voices say the same thing and one of them is here with us today. Right?
There are so many things I admire about our First Lady.
You know, Michelle reminds us to work hard, stay true to our values, be good to one another, and never ever stop fighting for what we believe in.
She has spent eight years as our First Lady advocating for girls around the world to go to school and have the same opportunities as boys.
She has worked for healthier childhoods for our kids here at home, better nutrition, more exercise, and we’re seeing the results. We actually are seeing kids who are healthier – something that she was determined to try to achieve.
She’s encouraged more young people to go to college and follow your dreams.
And she has supported America’s military families who serve and sacrifice as well for our country.
Now, it hasn’t been all hard work. She played a mean round of carpool karaoke. And among the many real privileges I’ve had is to see the president and the First Lady dance.
Oh, wow. One could only hope.
Now, she also planted an amazing vegetable garden at the White House. And I can promise you if I win, I will take good care of it, Michelle.
And boy, didn’t she dazzle world with that wise and beautiful speech at the Democratic National Convention this summer?
And you know, I have now stood on the debate stage for 4.5 hours with Donald Trump, and if you see any of those debates, well, that has proved once and for all I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
But there were times during those three debates when I tell you the loop running in my head was what Michelle said to us at the convention. Right? When they go low, we go high.

And on top of all of this, just by being herself everyday, never missing an opportunity to honor her parents for the hard work and sacrifice that set her on her way, she has shown every little girl and boy in America that there are no limits to what they can achieve if they work hard and do right and believe in themselves.
Seriously, is there anyone more inspiring than Michelle Obama?
And maybe it’s especially meaningful to me because I do know something about being First Lady of the United States.
And you know, I’m going to state the obvious. It’s not easy. You’ve got so many people counting on you. You’ve got the eyes of the world on you.
And when you’re trying to raise your children as she is and I did and give them the space and support they need to have as normal and safe and fulfilling childhoods as possible, that makes it even harder.
You know, I used to hang out in the main hall on the second floor of the White House around the time Chelsea would come home from school just to be sure I got to see her and see, you know, what happened that day and try to figure out, you know, what I needed to be thinking about and doing for her.
And let’s be real. As our first African-American First Lady, she’s faced pressures I never did, and she’s handled them with pure grace.
By any standard, she has been an outstanding First Lady who has made us all so proud.
And she and the president, she and the president have been such wonderful friends to me and my family. It’s meant the world to me. It really has.
And I want to say just one more thing about the First Lady’s work.
I mentioned military families. She’s been their fierce champions. And military families have come up against a lot in this election.
It just made me boil when Donald Trump disrespected a Gold Star family, Mr. and Mrs. Khan. He still hasn’t apologized to them. He actually made it worse. Just yesterday, he said again that if America had only made him president years ago, their son, Captain Khan, would still be alive.
Honestly, I don’t understand how anyone would want to rub salt in the wounds of a grieving family.
And he keeps insulting our military. Yesterday, when he heard that a retired army colonel and former dean of the Army War College said that Donald doesn’t understand military strategy, Trump said, “I’ll teach him a couple of things.”
Well, actually, Donald, you’re the one whose got a lot to learn about the military and everything else that makes America great starting by learning about the dignity and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. And he should learn from Michelle Obama how a leader supports them, not disrespects them.
So no one knows more about what’s at stake in this election than our First Lady because all the progress that we’ve achieved under President Obama’s leadership is at stake.
He pulled our economy out of the biggest ditch that it was in when he became president. He saved the auto industry. He cracked down on Wall Street. He has tackled health care, education, climate change, civil rights, and so much else.
And the work that we’ve done to strengthen our relationships with other countries and secure our leadership in the world is also at stake.
Now, I for one, and I hope all of you do not want that hard work by our president and our First Lady and millions of Americans to be wiped away. We cannot let that happen.

We’ve got to do everything in our power to get everyone out to vote, to understand no matter what issue you care about, it truly is on the ballot.
Now this has been a hard election. At times it’s gotten pretty ugly, hasn’t it? And we’ve all felt it, especially kids.
I hear this from parents and children across our country.
Kids write me notes. They hand me little cards and notes when I shake hands with them. Their parents write me. Teachers talk to me.
Kids are scared. Kids are scared about the rhetoric they’re hearing. Right? I see the educators’ heads nodding.
Little girls hear the ugly things that have been said about women in this campaign and it make them feel terrible and doubt themselves.
And that’s why it’s important for voices like our First Lady’s to stand up and say, “Wait a minute. Respecting women and girls is important.” And it’s especially important to send that message to our children, boys and girls alike.
Our kids are actually scared they’re going to be sent out of the country because their parents are immigrants or they’re immigrants.
They’re scared if they’re Muslim or they have a disability – I got a letter from a parent – a mom – in Wisconsin I think – who adopted her son, Felix, from Ethiopia when he was a toddler. He just turned 11 years old.
He wrote my campaign to let me know that he was now 11-years-old. I love it when little kids, you know, do little birthday remembrances.
America is the only country he’s ever known. And one day, he turned to his mom and he asked, “If Donald Trump becomes president, is he going to make me go back to Ethiopia?”
Now, that honestly breaks my heart. We’ve got to make sure all of our kids know America has a place for you. The American dream is big enough for you.
And then we’ve got to make sure they learn the right lessons about how to treat people.
I saw that sign – I believe in love and kindness. Right?
Well, here’s one place to start. We know that bullying is a real problem in our classrooms, our playgrounds, and online. And teachers have reported that this election has made it worse.
But I want you to know we’re going to launch a major new effort to help states and communities and schools and families end bullying wherever it takes place.
And we will work together to make the Internet a safer space for kids, invest in frontline professionals like guidance counselors and social workers and school nurses and psychologists to support kids who have been targeted, like the young woman I met in Iowa who told me she was bullied because of her asthma.
This has got to stop, and I can’t think of anything more important than making sure every single one of our children knows they are loved just as they are.
So ultimately, my friends, as Michelle reminds us, this election is about our kids and, in my case, my grandkids, their lives and their futures. Nothing is more important to me than that.
I’ve been fighting for kids throughout my career. I will fight for them every single day of my presidency.
So we have a job to do. Starting right now, let’s come together. Let’s work together. And let’s be hopeful and optimistic and unified in the face of division and hate. Bring people together in the spirit of mutual respect to solve shared challenges. Let’s have each other’s backs, lift each other up, not tear each other down.
Let’s go out and win this election to make sure we do exactly that for Roy Cooper, Deborah Ross, and all of us.
Let’s make sure you vote early. Vote as soon as you can. Vote this afternoon.
I’m excited about what we’re going to see happen here in North Carolina, and I am so excited to be introducing our amazing First Lady Michelle Obama!

I have now seen Director Comey’s letter to Congress.
We are 11 days out from perhaps the most important national election of our lifetimes. Voting is already underway in our country.
So the American people deserve to get the full and complete facts immediately.
The director himself has said he doesn’t know whether the emails referenced in his letter are significant or not.
I’m confident whatever they are will not change the conclusion reached in July.
Therefore it’s imperative that the bureau explain this issue and question whatever it is without any delay.
So I look forward to moving forward to focus on the important challenges facing the American people, winning on Nov. 8th, and working with all Americans to build a better future for our country.
Thank you.
First we knew about it is I assume when you knew about it, when this letter sent to Republican members of the House was released.
So we don’t know the facts, which is why we’re calling on the FBI to release all the information that it has.
Even Director Comey noted that this new information may not be significant. So let’s get it out.
So I would urge everybody to get out and vote early in all the states that have early voting because I think Americans want a president who can lead our country, who can get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top, and who can bring our country together.
I offer that. I can do that. And I’m very confident that the American people know that and we’re going to continue to discuss what’s at stake in this election because I believe that it’s one of the most consequential elections ever.
So we’ve made it very clear that if they’re going to be sending this kind of letter that is only going originally to Republican members of the House that they need to share whatever facts they claim to have with the American people, and that’s what I expect to happen.
Thank you all.

Wow! What a beautiful day in Cedar Rapids!
I am so excited and happy to be back here.
I really think of Iowa and especially all the communities that I’ve visited as the place that got my campaign started and gave me the chance as only Iowa does to talk with families about all the problems that keep you up at night.
And boy did I hear a lot about rising prescription drug costs and the cost of college and student debt and the epidemic – the quiet epidemic – of addiction and mental health issues, the challenge of balancing family and work.
All of those conversations in coffee shops and college campuses really put me on the path to understanding what it is your next president should do.
And you invited me into your homes, your businesses, factory floors, so many places where people were working hard and thinking about the kind of future you wanted for yourselves and your families.
And so, now with just 11 days left, we’ve got work to do.
…[Acknowledgments of dignitaries omitted]
…Let me say a word about the recent flooding here in Cedar Rapids. You escaped another historic flood like the one you had eight years ago. Thank heaven.
But we know that homes and families were still affected. And we need to make sure you have the resources you need not just to respond to this flood but to prevent devastation from future flooding.

The progress that you’ve made in rebuilding Cedar Rapids, especially right here in the the NewBo district, proves what’s possible when we work together to solve our challenges.
You know, I really do believe we are stronger together, and that’s why as president, I’ll do everything I can to make sure we do more to protect Cedar Rapids and eastern Iowa from flooding and natural disasters.
How many times do you have to go through this until we all say, hey, let’s get together and make the changes we need to make sure you don’t get devastated again?
Now, I am thrilled to be here with some amazing women both behind me and in front and on all sides of me. I see some women wearing t-shirts and sweatshirts that say “Nasty Woman”.
I mean, really, you can’t make this stuff up.
But I want to say a word of support and recognition of Patty Judge, your former lieutenant governor, candidate for U.S. Senate, who sure would bring a lot of common sense and hard-won experience to Washington.
And I also hope you will send Monica Vernon to the Congress.
Now, what I just said about Cedar Rapids and eastern Iowa, I need some reinforcement, and Monica and Patty would be just that – making the case for why this part of Iowa, this part of our country is so essential to the agricultural industry, to food production industry. We’ve got a lot that we need to be doing.
…And I know that we’ve got to keep our foot on the gas.
Donald Trump says he can still win. And you know? He’s right. Anything can happen in an election.
And here’s his campaign strategy. He hasn’t made it a big secret. His strategy is to get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, get people of color to stay home.
It’s all part of his scorched Earth campaign, the last refuge of a bankrupted candidate.
And it goes against everything we stand for in America.
Now, we’re not going to let that happen, are we?
And you know how we will do that? By voting. By showing up with the biggest turnout in history.
More women voting. More young people voting. More people of color voting. More Americans of every kind voting for a good positive, unified vision of the future.
And I have to tell you once again Iowa you can make the difference.
If all of you vote, if you get your friends, your neighbors, your co-workers to vote, we will make history on Nov. 8th.
And I have to say that we’re seeing some really promising signs of this. Right now, more than 200 million Americans have registered to vote. That is the biggest number in history.
And of that 200 million, more than 50 million are young people, which is fabulous.
So people are turning out, and I want to give you something to vote for, not just against.

Because I want you to be part of helping us implement an agenda that’s going to move our country forward.
I started my career all those years ago fighting for kids and families. That’s been the cause of my life. It will be the mission of my presidency.
I will get up every single day in the White House saying, “What am I going to do to help every single person and especially every child in this country have the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential?”
Now, I will admit to this. I am sometimes criticized for having too many policies. And you know, it’s probably true. I have a plan for just about everything.
I even wrote a book with my wonderful running mate, Tim Kaine, called Stronger Together, which has all of our ideas in it.
And the other day, it struck me, because you know, I do hear people making fun of me like, “Oh, all the policies and the plans and everything.” And I said, “You know, maybe this is a woman thing. We make lists.” Right?
I love making lists and then I love crossing things off.
So, I want you to imagine that together we’re going to vote on Nov. 8th for an agenda that will become a list that we will work on to implement to improve your lives and make our country stronger and fairer and better in the future.
Now, did any of you see that last debate?
Oh, my goodness. Well, I stood next to Donald Trump for 4.5 hours during those three debates. I think that proves once and for all I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
And I have to tell you, he was always saying something that I was finding, “Oh boy, unacceptable.”
And I kept reminding myself – people say, “Well, how did you keep your composure.”
Well, I practiced that a lot. I had my team and the young man playing Trump for me just insult me up and down. It was exhausting. I spent hours being insulted by my team and my friends. And boy, did it prepare me to stand there with the insulter known as Donald Trump.
And so I kept thinking to myself that wonderful line that Michelle Obama delivered in our convention when she gave her speech, “When they go low, we go high.”
Well, Donald Trump has gone low but in that last debate, he said something that was truly horrifying. He refused to say that he would respect the results of this election.
I know. It has never been done before. Nobody. If you go back and look at debates and speeches, nobody running for president representing one of our two major parties has ever said that.
And I have to say the first thing a president does on Jan. 20th is to take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.
In our country, we have free and fair elections and a peaceful transfer of power. That is one of the great hallmarks of American democracy.
And when you question the very institutions of our democracy going back to the founding of our country, you are attacking democracy.
Now, we have seen Donald Trump attack so many different kinds of Americans. He’s attacked African-Americans and Latinos and immigrants and Muslims and POWs and, of course, women and people with disabilities. Right?

But now, his final target seems to be democracy itself.
You know, I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State and in a lot of those countries they are – they’re nowhere near democracies. They’re dictatorships. They’re authoritarian regimes. Or they pretend to be democracies but, you know, one of the people on the ballot gets 99% of the vote.
And I knew every time I went anywhere else in the world how blessed I am to be an American. There are so many things to be grateful for and how we govern ourselves and how we conduct our election is among them.
So, we cannot just blow off what he’s saying because he’s still saying it. He’s standing up in front of large crowds and you can see how he’s egging them on, talking about rigged elections, talking about how we should just cancel the election and make him president.
Right. Yeah.
Well, we’ve got to be vigilant about this. This is not something to be made light of because there’ve been too many times in world history where somebody gets elected and then that’s the last election that is held.
So we not only have to hand stand up for whoever our candidates are, we have to stand up for the process of electing them because that’s how we lead ourselves, that’s how we make decisions together.
Now, I really believe that people are responding to that.
And look at what’s already happened. More than 16.5 million people have already voted, and here in Iowa, 370,000 people have cast their votes.
One of those voters is Ruline Steininger [sp] in Des Moines and she was born in 1913 before women had the right to vote. She’s 103 now and she’s a pistol. She came to see me last time I was in Des Moines, which happened to be the first day of early voting. And she came to tell me she was on her way to cast her vote. She had her walker. She had some of her young family members there with her. But she was determined that she was going to vote and vote early.
So don’t let anyone tell you they’re too busy to vote. If Ruline can do it, anybody can get to the polls, get to the early voting places, get to the mailbox, cast your vote.
I’m excited about what we’re seeing across the country because I think people turn out because they want to be for a better future, a common vision, a dynamic America where everyone counts and everyone has a place.
So let me just briefly talk about some of the issues that I think people care about because when you stop to think about it, every one of those issues is truly on the ballot. Now, they might not be listed. It might be my name and my opponent’s name. But they’re on the ballot.
Here’s one example. Throughout this campaign, actually throughout his life, Donald Trump has demeaned and insulted women.
Now, we all heard the tape of him on the bus bragging about what he did to women, and given his long track record of lewd and offensive comments about women, it was shocking but not surprising.
And then one woman after another has come forward to say, “What he said on that tape is exactly what he did to me.”
Now, how did Donald Trump respond? Well, he started holding big rallies broadcast on TV and he said he couldn’t possibly have done those things because the women speaking out weren’t attractive enough for him to have assaulted.
He said, one woman – and I quote him – “would not be my first choice. Look at her. I don’t think so.”
He even called the female journalist covering the story “disgusting”, which he has called other women as well.

He’s also on tape bragging to the radio personality Howard Stern that he would routinely barge into the dressing rooms of beauty pageant contestants while they were undressed to – quote – “inspect the women”. That was his word. He was “inspecting” them. “I sort of get away with that,” he said.
And maybe the most alarming part of what he said is that he admitted he did it with teenage contestants. Can you imagine? This is a man who relishes making women feel terrible about themselves in every possible way, someone who thinks belittling and objectifying women make him a bigger man. He goes after dignity and self-worth of women, and I don’t think there’s a woman anywhere who doesn’t know what that feels like.
So this is who Donald Trump is. This is how he speaks. This is how he thinks. This is what he does.
Now, it’s time for all of us to stand up and say, “This is not we are. We are better than that. We are Americans.”
So I’ve got to say it’s no surprise that every policy that he talks about reflect the same disrespect and even contempt for women. So make no mistake – women’s health and rights, our futures, the futures of our daughters and our granddaughters are on the ballot.
We were reminded of that in the last debate when he pledged to overturn Roe v. Wade and end safe and legal abortion. He promised to defund Planned Parenthood, to wipe away the health care services that millions of women get for cancer screenings and so many other necessary help.
And I just have to say we have come too far to let Donald Trump take us back, haven’t we?
And you know, I fight for women’s issues not just because I’m a woman but because I believe these are American issues.
Again, remember those 112 countries I visited? I saw in many of them the way women were treated, how they were marginalized and sidelined, how they were not guaranteed an education, health care, and opportunity to pursue their own dreams and ambitions.
I think we have to continue to set the example that if you believe everyone in this country deserves an opportunity to go as far as their talent and hard work will take them, that includes both men and women, and everyone of us should be committed to that goal.
Well, you know, I started saying all this way back in the campaign months and months ago, and Donald Trump would say I was playing the woman card. Remember that?
And you know what I say. If standing up for women’s health and women’s rights is playing the woman’s card, then deal me in.
But we also have to make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top. Men and women, the young, the old, everybody should have an economic opportunity to go as far as they can. Because I believe when the middle class thrives, America thrives.
And we’re going to fight hard to make the biggest investment in new jobs since World War II, investments in infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, technology, innovation, small businesses, which are the real heart of any economy, where most of the new jobs will come from.
And we’re going to invest in clean renewable energy to create millions of new jobs in that field. We are going to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century with your help.
And I go around bragging about Iowa because you already get a third of your electricity from clean energy, mostly wind. Right?

So we know we can do this on a national basis.
And we also have to make the economy fairer, and that means raising the national minimum wage so if you work full-time, you’re not mired in poverty. It means finally equal pay for women’s work.
And it means affordable child care and paid family leave because families are under so much stress today, and I met so many, so many young family members – moms and dads – as I travel across Iowa. And I keep meeting people who are really under tremendous pressure.
Tim Kaine and I were in Pittsburgh last week and Tim was talking to a big group of folks and one of the women was holding a 3-year-old daughter, and Tim said as we do, “What a beautiful little girl.” And the woman said, “I came here to tell you and to tell Hillary Clinton that right after I had my baby, I got fired from my job because I had a tough pregnancy and a tough labor and delivery, I couldn’t come right back to work so they fired me.”
I’ll tell you, if we say we care about children and family values, don’t you think we ought to have paid family leave and actually prove that we do?
And you’ve heard me say before we’re going to have universal pre-kindergarten because we need to start our kids off with the best possible education beginning.
We’re going to have good teachers and good schools in every zip code in Iowa and across America.
And you know, I’m very proud of the campaign that Sen. Sanders and I ran. It was a campaign about issues and ideas, not insults. Right?
And when it finished, he and I got together and we have a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition free for families making less than $125,000 a year. That’s the vast majority of families.
But if you’re over that number, we’re going to make it debt free so you pay what you can afford but you don’t go into debt.
And no matter where you go to college, we are going to make it easier and quicker for you to refinance, pay back, and end your student debt.
I think it’s time to support teachers and students so vote to put a world class education within reach for everyone.
And we are also going to make sure that we have a tax system that is fair.
And you know what that means? Nobody making less than $250,000 a year will have your taxes raised one bit. I have made that pledge. I’m going to carry through with that pledge.
But we’re going to tax millionaires and billionaires and corporations because they’re not paying their fair share.
And you can hear it when Trump talks about what he wants to do. He says he wants to cut trillions – that’s trillions with a “T” – trillions of dollars in taxes for millionaires, billionaires, and corporations. Man, that is trickle down economics on steroids. That is the worst idea.
We need to build the economy from the middle out and the bottom up. That’s what’s going to get it growing and providing more jobs and opportunities.
And it’s especially ironic coming from a guy who didn’t pay any federal income taxes. Right?
You know, back in the ‘90s he lost $1 billion. He says that makes him smart.
Look, I just don’t know how smart you have to be to lose $1 billion in one year running casinos. But I’ve never met somebody who lost money with casinos because with casinos, the house always wins. Right?
So he calls himself smart. His supporters call him a genius. I guess you have to be a genius to lose $1 billion in a year.
But here’s what’s important. Every one of us, every one of us who’s worked, gotten a paycheck, we’ve paid more in income tax to support our military, our vets, Pell Grants for students, health care, highways, education, agriculture than Donald Trump. And I think that tells you everything you need to know about him.

This is Donald Trump to a T. He is the poster boy for bad business behavior.
His companies denied housing to African-Americans because of their race.
He made most of his products in other countries, not the United States.
He bought Chinese steel instead of American steel to build his hotels.
He stiffs small businesses, and I’ve these people. I mean, my dad was a small businessman and I know how hard he worked. And I’ve met people who had a contract with Donald Trump. They thought they’d died and gone to heaven. They were so excited. So they supplied pianos to his hotels. They installed marble or glass. They installed drapery fabrics. They worked hard. And then it came time to be paid and he stiffed them. He wouldn’t pay them.
And honestly, it just made me very happy that my father never had a contract from Donald Trump because when you work that hard, you deserve to be paid for the work and the services and the products you provide.
So my friends, here’s the bottom line. We all need to think about whatever issue is most important and visualize that on the ballot. And then compare – compare and contrast what I’ve done for the last 30 years with what he’s done, what I’ve produced for people to improve their lives and what he’s done, what I will do as your president if given the chance to serve, and what he will do.
Think about every single concern you’ve got. Think about your kids and your grandkids and what you’ll tell them about how you voted.
Because I want you to join me in voting for a better America. And here in Iowa, it’s really easy. You can vote today or tomorrow at the auditor’s office or next week at libraries in Cedar Rapids, in Marion.
You can get flier as you leave from our organizers telling you the details. You can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place to make sure you have a plan to vote.
You can reach out to people who are maybe shut-ins or who have trouble getting around and help them to be able to vote.
Every phone call you make, every door you knock on will help us make a difference in this election.
So please go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to volunteer or take your phone out and text JOIN to 47246.
Because here’s one thing you know for sure – on Jan. 20th, America will have a new president.
And the real question is what kind of change are we going to have? Change is inevitable. It’s up to us to determine how we’re going to guide and shape that change.
I personally don’t think people when they stop to consider it want the kind of change Donald Trump is offering – going back to the days when insurance companies and Wall Street could write their own rules, which is what he says he wants to do, rolling back marriage equality and women’s rights, abandoning our alliances and allowing more countries to get nuclear weapons. Now, that’s change all right. But not the change we need.
I have a very different vision. It’s more positive. It’s more unifying.
I want us to be a country with good high-paying jobs in every community, where college is affordable, where hard-working immigrants who pay taxes have a path to citizenship, where we respect each other – men and women, immigrants, African-Americans, Latinos, Asians, everybody, that we recognize we are in this together, and where we lead with strength and intelligence in the world, working with our allies to fight and defeat terrorism, and stop the spread of nuclear weapon.
So change is coming. The choice is yours as to what kind of country we will have.
I want you to join me to build a stronger and fairer America, and I have made absolutely clear I will fight for you, I will work for you, I will make a difference – a positive difference – with results for you.
We will have a future we can be proud of. And we will prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you!

…Well, my friends, just nine days left until Nov. 8th.
Nine days that really will determine the outcome of the most important election of our lifetimes. And we cannot take anyone or anything for granted.
It’s great to be here at the Manor Complex, the place that means so much to so many.
And there’ve been ups and downs in all that we’ve gone through over the years and even in this campaign, but I want you to know I am focused on one thing: You. Your lives. Your futures. The problems that keep you up at night. That’s what I’m interested in, and that’s what I’m going to be talking about here today and throughout the next nine days.
That’s what this election is about.
You know, there’s been a lot of noise and distraction but it really comes down to what kind of future we want and who as our president can help us get there.
So I want you to know – I just have to say I know I’m preaching to the choir. But I also through you want to talk to people who are still making up their minds, believe it or not. Right?
Because we’ve got a choice between a president who will bring us together, keep our country safe, get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top, or someone who’s temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified for the job.
You know, Donald Trump is doing his best to confuse, mislead, and discourage the American people. I mean, he’s such a downer. Right?
And it’s time for him to stop fear-mongering, to stop distracting from what’s really at stake, and frankly, stop disgracing our democracy. We can’t let him get away with it.

But here’s the good news. Yes, America is great and we can make it greater if we work together and we set some goals.
But we are seeing Americans coming together – Democrats, Republicans, Independents – to reject Donald Trump’s dark and divisive vision of our country.
It’s going to be really important that we make it clear to everyone in these last nine days what’s at stake.
Because I really believe the vast majority of Americans agree with us. We don’t want a president who demeans women. We don’t want a president who has plans to break up and deport immigrant families. We don’t want a president who perpetrated the lie that President Obama wasn’t born in America. We don’t want a president who would appoint Supreme Court justices to overturn marriage equality.
But I want you to know the energy we’re now seeing out in the campaign is not just about what we’re against. It’s also about what we’re for.
Because we also share a common vision. Beyond partisanship and politics, it’s a hopeful, inclusive America where everyone counts and everyone has a place. Right?
And that’s exactly what I’m going to be fighting for in these last nine days. We’re going to honor people, not insult them.
Donald Trump has insulted more than half of our population – African-Americans, Latinos, immigrants, Muslims, POWs, women. And by what he had said, so many others who believe that you have a positive future. I agree with that. You do.
And I promise you this. I’m going to keep working every single day for you and for the vision of America that we share.
Now, I will tell you my mom taught me to never ever quit and what does that mean? Well, that means – you got it. You got it. And it also means when you’re knocked down, what matters is whether you get up again.
I have been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life. I’m not stop now. We’re just getting warmed up. Right?
And we won’t be distracted no matter what our opponents throw at us. We’re not going to be knocked off course. We know how much this election matters and we know how many people are counting on us.
So we’re going to take to heart the words of our wonderful First Lady Michelle Obama, “When they go low, we go high.”
We’re going to keep our foot on the gas because Donald Trump’s strategy is real simple. They’d even said it in his campaign. Here’s his strategy about how he’s going to win – get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, get people of color to stay home, get the LGBT community to stay home.
It’s all part of his scorched Earth campaign and it goes against everything we stand for.
So you know how we’re going to stop him? By showing up with the biggest turnout in American history.
We need everybody to turn out and vote – women, young people, people of color, the LGBT community, Latinos, African-Americans, Americans from all walks of life.
Let’s break every single record. Let’s make that the story of this election.
And you know, here’s some really good news. This is amazing. More than 20 million people have already voted in this election. Most of those votes in the last few days. Three million of those votes from right here in Florida.
Now, you only see numbers like that when people are standing up for what they really believe in.
So if all of you vote, if your friends, your family, your co-workers vote, if everyone you talk to between now and Election Day vote, we are going to make some really big history on Nov. 8th.
And I want you not only coming out for me. I want you to re-elect our members of Congress and please elect Patrick Murphy to the Senate.

And if there are still people who have doubts about the stakes in this election, listen to this.
We’ve heard some outrageous things in this campaign. I’m sure we’ll hear some more in the next nine days.
But I’ve got to tell you I was beginning to think that nothing we learned about Donald Trump could surprise me any more.
But yesterday, the Washington Post published…[inaudible]…truly stunning. It starts with a story of a ribbon cutting back in 1996 for a nursery school serving children living with HIV and AIDS in New York.
Now, let me say this is important in part to remember this is a story about children with HIV and AIDS.
So there was a big celebrating honoring the donors who had supported the nursery school and all the kids and their families for whom this was the most important thing you can imagine because you know, back in the ‘90s, some of you remember. Right? Children weren’t welcomed in school.
And unannounced and uninvited, guess who barges in? Donald Trump.
He walks right up to the stage. He sat down in the seat that was being saved for a local developer who had made a generous donation. None of the people working for the charity knew why he was there.
He wasn’t a donor at all. He had never given a single dollar to help build the school. He just wanted people to think he had.
So he sat on the stage through the program, even posed for photographs, and when it was over, he got up and walked out. No explanation. No donation.
Now, really, who does that? What kind of person does that? Really?
I mean, who pretends to help kids with HIV and AIDS in order to make themselves look good?
Well, I’ll tell you. The same kind of person who would pull a bait and switch on a high school chess team.
Back in 1997, he was principal for a day at a public school. That was a program we used to have in New York.
The chess team was holding a bake sale to raise money to travel to a tournament. They were $5,000 short. He walked up to them and handed them a fake million dollar bill.
At first, the kids and their parents were excited. Then they were devastated to learn it was a joke. So he gave them $200 and drove away in his limousine.
Now, this story does have a happy ending because a woman read a story about Donald Trump’s behavior, called the school, and donated the $5,000. And the coach remembers this woman saying, “I’m ashamed to be the same species as this man.”
Now, I got to say, any of you see the debate?
Well, you know, I stood next to Donald Trump in three debates for 4.5 hours, proving conclusively I have the stamina to do this job. Right?
But a lot of what we’ve heard him say is part of a lifelong pattern.
And here’s what the Washington Post concludes: For as long as he has been rich and famous, he has wanted people to believe he is generous. He spent years constructing an image as a philanthropist by appearing at charity events and by making very public, even nationally televised promises to give his own money away. It was in large part a facade.
And a months long investigation by the Washington Post found that Trump had sought credit for charity he has not given or had claimed other people’s giving as his own.
Now, of course, because he has refused to release his tax returns, we don’t even know if he’s ever given anything.
But here’s what we do know. With Donald, it’s always Donald Trump first and everyone else last.
He abuses his power. He games the system. And he doesn’t care who’s left holding the bag.
And here’s what else we know. Donald Trump has a terrible record on LGBT rights.
And this election will determine whether we continue the progress we’ve made or let it be ripped away.
We know Trump has promised he’ll appoint Supreme Court justices who will overturn marriage equality and that he will repeal President Obama’s executive actions to protect LGBT people from discrimination.

And just this week, a new story came out that tells us a lot about how he treats LGBT employees.
It’s the story of a maintenance worker at one of Trump’s golf courses. I want you just to think – this guy works hard, works with his hands, 12 hours a day – maybe more when it’s the summer season.
After he told his coworkers that he was gay, they started harassing him. They called him names. They even threw rocks and golf balls at him. It got so bad, he ended up in the hospital.
Now, his supervisor saw all of this and did nothing. So finally, he went to the police for help. He was too scared even to come back to work. And what did the Trump golf course do? They fired him.
Now, this is a heart wrenching story on a lot of levels. For starter, it’s a painful reminder of the harassment, violence, and discrimination too many LGBT Americans still face every single day. And it’s deeply disturbing that instead of stepping in to stop this unacceptable behavior, Trump’s business punished the victim for coming forward.
Now, if that’s how Donald Trump runs his business, what does it say about how he would run our country?
We’ve made a lot of progress on LGBT rights. But as that story reminds us, we still have work ahead. Don’t we?
There’s still no federal law that stops an employer from refusing to hire someone just because he or she is LGBT or a landlord from refusing to rent an apartment to a transgender tenant. And of course, there are still states where you can get married on Saturday, post your Facebook photos on Sunday, and get fired on Monday just because of who you are or who you love.
So here’s what I’ll do as president. We will call on the Congress to pass the Equality Act.
And you know, we will then be able to protect LGBT Americans from discrimination in all aspects of our lives.
We’ll work together to achieve the AIDS free generation that is within our reach.
And we will take on homelessness, bullying, and violence, particularly youth homelessness which disproportionately hurts LGBT kids.
And we’re going to end the harmful practice of so-called conversion therapy. LGBT kids don’t need to be cured of anything. They just need to be accepted and embraced and respected.
And yes, we’re going to bring people together to reform our gun laws and keep guns from falling into the wrong hands so that what happened in Orlando can never happen again.
Now, some of you know, Chad Griffin and others know this issue is important to me. I traveled to 112 countries as your Secretary of State. I saw how countries around the world treated lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. And I believe with all my heart America has to lead by example.
I want LGBT people in every corner of our country because don’t forget you all living in Wilton Manors have moved far away from a lot of the places where people are still scared to death. Right?
And we’re going to elevate this issue. We’re going to talk about it. We’re going to reach out.
So when you vote in this election, remember, it’s not just my name on the ballot. It’s your future. It’s who we are as a country. It’s every issue we care about.
And make no mistake, LGBT rights are at stake. Dignity and respect for every American is at stake. The future of our economy is at stake.
I believe that when the middle class thrives, Americans thrive.
And we’re going to make America the clean energy super power of the 21st century.
And if we’re serious about supporting the middle class, we’re going to be supporting families.
You know, the other day I was in Pittsburgh and there was a woman there with her young child. We’ve got some folks from Pittsburgh. She was shaking Tim Kaine’s hand, and she was saying to him, “I came here hoping I could tell you or Secretary Clinton, I had my baby three years ago and the next day I was fired because it had been a difficult pregnancy I called to ask if I could take a little time to recover. And the answer was no, don’t come back at all.”
Nobody, no parent should ever have to make that kind of choice.

But that’s also true when we talk about paid family leave caring for a spouse or a partner, caring for an elderly relative.
I want us to recognize the way we live today. It is no longer the 1950s. We need to support people who are part of committed relationships, of families, of marriages, and give everybody the support you need to actually do what’s the most important thing in life and that is caring for each other.
We’re going to do everything we can to catch up to the rest of the world – affordable child care, paid family leave, earned sick days, jobs with rising incomes.
We’re going to raise the national minimum wage. No one who works full-time should have to raise a family in poverty.
And yes, we’re going to guarantee equal pay for women’s work. We’re going to make sure – we’re going to make sure we not only grow the economy but that we make it fairer.
And I’ve got to tell you that’s such a stark contrast with Trump. He believes if you give the biggest tax cut in American history to the wealthy, that’s with trillions of dollars going to the top, that will somehow trickle down. It hasn’t worked. It won’t work.
I believe that we could grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, and that’s exactly what we’re going to do.
And so my friends, we’ve got a guy who won’t pay his income tax. I mean, I’ve got to just say when we learned in the debate that he lost $1 billion and that meant that he didn’t pay income tax for like 20 years, he said that was smart. And I said to myself, how smart do you have to be to lose $1 billion? Right? Really!
And what kind of genius are you to lose $1 billion while running casinos?
But it’s serious because it means he’s paid zero – zero – for our military, our vets, for health care, for Pell Grants, for our universities, our colleges, our highways.
This is Trump to a T. The stories I told you about him showing up and acting like he’s done something.
Well, he shows up and criticizes our country.
He shows up and discriminates against African-Americans when he was denying them the right to rent apartments.
He chose to make his products in other countries, not America.
He’s built a career on stiffing small businesses. I take that personally. My dad was a small business owner. I’m sure glad he never got a contract from Donald Trump.
So my friends, we’ve got work to do and let’s get to that work. We’ve got to make sure that we get everybody out to vote.
I want you to be able to say on Nov. 9th you voted for a better future. You voted for a better America.
And look how easy it is. It is so easy.
Wilton Manor’s City Hall is just a half a mile down the street from where we are right now.
And if you’re registered in Broward County, you can vote at any early vote location in the county from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. all week.
And if you’ve mailed your ballot, make sure you fill it out and mail it back today.
You can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place and make sure you have a plan to vote.
But please also help us in these last nine days. Every phone call you make, every door you knock on will make a difference.
So go to HillaryClinton.com sign up to volunteer. Take out your phone, text join – J-O-I-N – to 47246.
I don’t want anybody waking up on Wednesday morning and seeing the results and getting depressed. I’m against depression. We don’t want that to happen in this election. Right? I don’t want people to be sad because they didn’t do their part. We can’t let that happen.
And I have to ask you if you know anybody – if you know anybody – who’s thinking about voting for Trump, you’ve got to stage an intervention. Do everything you can to try to convince that person that they surely care about something that Donald Trump is on the wrong side of because I can guarantee you they do.
Because after all, friends don’t let friends vote for Trump. Right?
So I am so grateful for all of you.
How many of you have already voted?
Okay, so now, how many of you will help us get somebody out to vote? That’s what’s going to make the difference.
Change is coming. Let’s make sure it’s the right kind of change. The choice is yours.
We’re going to do everything we can to build a stronger, better, fairer America, coming together healing the divides among us, and we’re going to prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you!

Thank you! Thank you all so much!
Wow! Oh man, I tell you, it is so great to be back here in Pittsburgh.
And you know, I don’t think it gets any better than to be accompanied out onto the stage by Dan and Pat Rooney. I am a big admirer of the Rooney family and I was so honored with Dan when he was our ambassador to Ireland.
You know, the Rooney family commitment to Pittsburgh is really extraordinary. And it’s not just the amazing commitment to the Steelers, as special as that is, but to their roots, what they believe in, their values, and their deep concern for future generations.
So I am incredibly humbled to be supported by Dan and Pat and the Rooney family. It means a great deal to Tim and me.
…If all goes well in 17 days, we are looking forward to working with you on behalf of Pittsburgh.
Some of you know that I have a special place in my heart for Pennsylvania, and I am excited about helping in any way that we can for Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, and Western Pennsylvania to keep moving forward with confidence and optimism about what’s possible for the future we want to create together.
And I am thrilled to be here with Tim Kaine.
You know, I asked him to be my running mate because I knew he would be one of the smartest, toughest, most qualified vice presidents we have ever had.
And I also knew he had never lost an election. So I kind of figured that might rub off on me a little bit.
And now I’ve gotten to spend more time with him and with his wonderful wife, Anne, and their family, I’m even more confident that he will be such an extraordinary leader for our country.
He’s not just smart and tough and qualified. Tim Kaine is as good and decent a person as you’ll ever meet. And I am deeply honored to have him by my side in this campaign.
You know, Tim and I are excited by all the energy and enthusiasm that we’re seeing across the country and particularly here in Pennsylvania.
But both of us unlike our opponent do not believe we can do this alone. We believe that we’re going to do this by working with all of you.
And that we’re going to come together in the next 17 days and convince everybody you can to get out and vote because whatever issue you care about it’s going to be on the ballot. It may not be listed but it will be on the ballot.
Whether you care about new good jobs with rising incomes or you care about better education or you care about what we can do to get the costs of prescription drugs down, whatever it is you care about, it’s literally going to be on that ballot.
Now, my name and Tim’s name may be on the ballot but we’re going to be representing everything that you and we hope we can do together in our country.
And we’re going to need help doing that after the election, and that’s why I hope you will do everything you can to elect Katie McGinty your next senator.

You know, Katie is the daughter of a Philadelphia police officer. I think she’s one of 10 children. Right? One of 10 children.
She has devoted her professional life to protecting working families.
I’ve known her now for more than 20 years when she was really young and I’ve seen that same can-do spirit. She just gets up everyday and says what can she do to fight for healthier neighborhoods, to keep our kids healthy, to fight for cleaner air and cleaner water, to really help people make the most out of their own lives.
And now she’s running for the Senate because like Tim and I, she believes our economy should work for everyone, not just those at the top.
Katie is exactly the kind of partner that we need in the Senate but more importantly she’s exactly the kind of senator that Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania need in the Senate.
We have got to get things done for the people of Pennsylvania and America, and Katie will help us break through the gridlock, actually make a difference in people’s lives, help us create more good jobs with rising incomes, guaranteeing equal pay for women, defending Planned Parenthood.
And I think it’s pretty clear when you look at Katie’s opponent. He still refuses to stand up to Donald Trump.
Now, you know, a lot of Republicans have. They have had the grit and the guts to stand up and say, “He does not represent me.”
But Pat Toomey heard Donald attack a grieving Gold Star family who lost their son in Iraq. He heard Donald call Mexican immigrants “rapists”. He heard him say terrible things about women. He heard him spread the lie that our first black president wasn’t really born in America.
Now, how much more does Pat Toomey need to hear?
If he doesn’t have the courage to stand up to Donald Trump after all this, then can you be sure he’ll stand up for you when it comes to powerful interests?
So, you know, when I look at this, I’m thinking to myself, you know, we’ve got work to do in Washington, and I know it’s not easy. I understand we’ve got some real challenges.
I believe we can do it. I wouldn’t be standing here, Tim wouldn’t be with me.
But we need people in Washington who put you first, who get up everyday thinking about middle class families who worry about where you’re going to get the money to send your kids to college, how are you going to take care of your mom or dad because of they’re failing and what are you going to do for them, how are you going to be able to deal with all the challenges.
That’s what I have tried to do my entire life. That’s who you should be electing – people who care about you, care about your families, your children.
Now, as Tim said, he asked if any of you watched the debate on Wednesday. Well, I’ll tell you, that was the third and last time I will ever have to debate Donald Trump.
I mean, think about this. I have now spent 4.5 hours on stage with Donald, proving once again I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
And after every one of those debates, people have said, “How did you do that?” And really, you just have to be a good cheer when you find yourself in a situation like that. You’re in front of, you know, 50, 60, 70, 80 million people, and so no matter what he was saying, I just kept thinking of all the people I’ve met throughout this campaign.

Just earlier today, I met Henry, who’s over there. Henry’s on top of his dad’s shoulder and Henry gave me a note saying that he hoped I’d be president.
And you know, I really want to be president for all of the kids in America to do everything I can to help you.
You know, I also did have a chance to talk about some of the important concerns that people have shared with me.
From the very first day I started this campaign back in April of 2015, people have been telling me what’s on their minds, and it is one of the greatest honors.
You know, sometimes it’s just fleeting. You know, I’ll be in a coffee shop, shaking hands, or later on, I’ll come down and shake hands on a rope line. Just running into somebody.
And that person – that man or woman or that young person – takes a moment to stop and looks into my eyes. I can tell they’re trying to take my measure. And I am grateful they take their vote, their choice so seriously.
And then they might say something like, “I have a really terrible problem in my family. My son or my daughter has gotten addicted to opiates or to heroin. What are you going to do about it?”
Or maybe they’ll say, “My brother has schizophrenia, and we can’t afford to get him the kind of consistent care he needs.”
Or maybe they’ll say, “I am a diabetic, and the drug company’s just raised the cost of insulin, and I can’t afford it. What are you going to do about it?”
That is the right question to ask anybody running for president because at the end of the day, this is about you.
As I said the other night, we’re going to invest in the middle class. We’re going to grow this economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down.
And we’re going to make sure we produce enough good jobs with rising incomes so that every single person, especially every single young person, in America can go as far as your hard work and talent take you.
Now, I got to say I believe in hard work. That’s how I was raised. I believe that you’ve got to work for what you get in life. But I think we’ve got to knock down some of the barriers that stand in the way of people getting ahead and going as far as they should.
And for me, that starts by believing in our country.
You know, there has been no other place in the history of the world that has given so much opportunity to so many. Do we have problems? Yeah, we have problems. Do we have challenges? Of course, we do. We’re human beings. But boy, there is no more blessed place.
And Donald Trump did something the other night no – no other presidential nominee has ever done of either party. He refused that he would respect the results of this election.
Now, make no mistake about this my friends. He is threatening our democracy.
Look, I’ve lost elections. You don’t feel very good the next day, believe me. But we know in our country the difference between leadership and dictatorship. Right?
You know, the peaceful transition of power is one of those things that sets us apart.
And whether you support me or you support my opponent, together, we must show that we support American democracy.
And I believe both Donald Trump and I should be grateful for the opportunities that our country has given us. And the best way to demonstrate that we support our democracy is to turn out and vote.
And there is an inspiring story being written by people across America right now. We have just reached a milestone. More than 200 million Americans are registered to vote in this election.

And you know what? That includes 50 – more than, actually – more than 50 million young people. More than ever before.
I find that a very hopeful sign, and here in Pennsylvania, hundreds of thousands of more voters are registered than were in 2012.
So what does this tell us? I think it tells us no matter how much negativity is out there, something exciting is happening right now.
People are coming together – Democrats, Republicans, and Independents – all to reject hate and division.
And in the states where they can, people are motivated to vote early to defend core American values and embrace a future where every person counts, everyone has a place, everyone can contribute.
Because you see, despite what Donald Trump may think, most Americans really believe that we can do better.
Most Americans really believe women should be respected.
Most Americans really believe that workers should be paid fairly.
Most Americans believe the United States should work with our allies to lead the world and keep us safe.
So, the energy we are seeing in the final weeks of this campaign is about more than winning an election.
It is about standing up for the kind of country we want for ourselves and for our children.
And it’s about the lessons we want to teach our sons and daughters.
I want all of you to know that if Tim and I are fortunate enough to be your president and vice president that we will work with everyone.
Now, I imagine here in Allegheny County and if you’re from further west, you probably know people who are thinking about voting for Donald Trump. And here’s what I want you to tell them. I want you to tell them that I understand that they need a president who cares about them, will listen to them, and I want to be their president too.
Because, you know, whether you agree or disagree with me, whether you vote for me or vote against me, I believe we can disagree without being disagreeable. I’ve seen that. I know it can happen.
And I know there are a lot of people right here in Pennsylvania who have a lot of questions. They want to know how do we move forward better. They want to know what’s going to happen with their town where there used to be a lot of jobs and there aren’t as many any more.
They’re upset about what they see happening around them.
I get that. But anger is not a plan.
And we need to work together. We need plans to help us deal with the legitimate concerns and questions that people have here in Pennsylvania. I think that’s what our whole country needs right now. That’s what I will try to do.
I’m not going to pretend that we can just snap our fingers and solve our problems. That doesn’t happen in the real world.
But I know we can make progress together.
And the choice we face in this election is stark, especially when it comes to the economy.
Tim and I believe that when the middle class thrives, America thrives, and when we invest in working families, in the middle class, in small businesses, we can make the economy work again for everybody.
Now, I think it’s fair to say that both Donald Trump and Pat Toomey have a different perspective. They believe – and they believe this – that if you give trillions of dollars – that’s trillion with a T – trillions in tax cuts to the wealthy, to millionaires, to billionaires, to corporations it will all trickle down to everybody else.
Hasn’t worked before and it’s caused us a lot of messes that we’ve had to clean up.

And I’ve been privileged to see presidents up close and personal. Right? Married to one. That’s right. Worked for one.
And here’s what I know. That when you focus on helping the middle class, you end up lifting everybody. When you focus on helping the top, you help the top.
That is not good enough.
Donald likes to say he’s on the side of the American workers, but his actions tell a different story.
Yes, he’s bought cheap Chinese steel and aluminum for his construction projects. He should be buying good American-made steel that supports good American jobs.
I’d like to hear Donald explain to American steel workers filing for unemployment while he put Chinese steel workers to work instead of steel workers here in Pennsylvania.
And for all of his talk about putting America first, he’s made many of his products in 12 different countries. So if he wants to make America great again, why doesn’t he start by making things in America again?
And we now know he hasn’t paid a dime in federal income taxes for years. He says that makes him smart. Well, I don’t know how smart you have to be to lose $1 billion in a year in the first place, especially – answer me this: How do you lose $1 billion when you’re in the casino business? Never could figure that out.
But what it means is that every one of us here has paid more in federal income taxes than a billionaire has. That is wrong and we’re going to end those kinds of loopholes and gimmicks.
I’ll tell you what it also means that Donald has contributed zero – zero – for our military. Zero for our vets. Zero for Pell Grants to help young people go to college. Zero for our highways. Zero for everything.
And yet, he stands up on the stage and he criticizes America.
Well, it’s unfair and it’s wrong.
With your help, we’re going to make the biggest investments in new jobs since World War II – jobs in infrastructure. Our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, our water systems all need help, and those are a lot of good jobs waiting to be done. Jobs that can’t be exported out of Pennsylvania.
I believe we can bring advanced manufacturing back to the United States. That’s why we will invest $10 billion in a Make-It-In-America partnerships that bring together workers and unions and businesses, universities, and community colleges.
Some country’s going to take the lead with precision machining. Some country is going to take the lead with 3-D printing. We invented both of those technologies. We should take the lead and we should have the jobs.
We’re also going to fight climate change with clean renewable energy jobs.
And we’re going to help small businesses which will create two-thirds of all the new jobs in America.
And we’re going to defend your right to organize and bargain collectively for higher wages and benefits.
Don’t let anybody fool you, my friends. Assaults on worker rights and on unions is an assault on the middle class.
It is time to say loudly and clearly Right To Work is wrong for workers and wrong for America.
So, I’ve set some big goals. I’m excited about what we’re going to do. And it’s all going to put people to work right here.
And sometimes folks say to me, “Well, how are you going to get that done? You know, you go to the Congress…”

And I say, well, first of all, I hope we’re going to elect some more Democrats. That would be number one. But number two, number two, I think it’s going to be a very simple question. Are members of Congress, members of the Senate going to be on the side of the rich, the powerful, the wealthy or on your side?
And you know what? They’re going to have to answer that question. Because if they stay beholden to the special interests, if they continue to do the bidding of the lobbyists and the lawyers and others who stand there outside their doors. I’ve been in the Senate. I’ve seen it. I know it. If they’re going to continue to do the work of those who are already privileged in America, then I want to make sure that they don’t come back to Washington after the next election.
And look, we’re in a great, great high school here, and I’m so proud to be here.
And so we’re going to do more to be a good partner with education, especially with educators.
We’re going to start with universal pre-K. We want good schools with good teachers in every zip code so every kid gets a world class education.
And I want us to bring technical education back to high school. I think it was a mistake when we took it out. There are a lot of good jobs that you can be prepared for in today’s economy coming out of high school, maybe going to community college, going into an apprenticeship program. And I want to lift up that work.
A four-year college degree should not be and is not the only way to have a good job with a rising income and a satisfying life.
We’re going to make public colleges and universities tuition free for any families making less than $125,000 a year.
And we’re going to help you pay down your college debt. It’s going to be great to help you pay it back as a percentage of your income at your job so you’re never on the hook for more than you can afford.
I worked on this with Sen. Bernie Sanders and it’s going to help to save – it’s going to help save people thousands of dollars.
In fact, after here or maybe while you are here, you can go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator to see how much you and your family can save. We want you to know we’re going to deliver results for you.
I mean, ultimately, it’s pretty simple. I think the American dream is big enough for everybody and I want everybody to have a chance to get your piece of the American dream.
So there’s a lot of work we’re going to be doing.
We need to raise the national minimum wage. People who work full-time should not be mired in poverty.
We are, as Tim said, going to guarantee equal pay for women.
You know, look, it’s not just a woman’s issue. If you have a mother, which all of us do, if you have a mother, a wife, a daughter, or a sister who’s working, it’s your issue. It’s good for the entire family. It’s good for our economy.
So my friends, there’s a lot – a lot – for us to do in the next 17 days because we’ve got to get the word out. We’ve got to tell everybody what we’re doing and why this election is so critically important.
And that’s where all of you – all of you – come in.
If you do know people who are thinking about voting for our opponent, well, you may. You know, I hope you will stage an intervention.
And I do hope you’ll talk about, you know, the reality versus the demagoguery of what we’ve seen in this campaign.
You know, we need to come together around all of the issues that are important to everybody.
And as I said in the beginning, whatever issue you care about it’s going to be on the ballot.

I care a lot about making sure women and girls are treated with dignity and respect that they deserve in our country.
I care a lot about making sure that we save Social Security and we ensure that everybody has the benefits that they need in order to be able to live a decent life in retirement.
And boy, do I care a lot about our Constitution. And maybe it’s because on your behalf, I went to 112 countries as your Secretary of State, and I met a lot of people who envy us because we’ve been so steady and so committed to our constitutional system and our values.
And what I hope is that you care as deeply as our founders did, as our parents and grandparents did. Because maybe they came from somewhere else where they weren’t treated right. Maybe they saw firsthand what it meant to be deprived of the rule of law.
You know, every time Donald Trump says he wants to jail his opponent, meaning me, I think to myself, “You know, we don’t do that in America. We actually have laws and courts and an independent judiciary.”
Or you know, when he blows up at a journalist or you know criticizes the press and goes on and on and on. You know, I get criticized by the press. I know that’s part of our democratic system.
We believe in a free press, and boy, if you go to countries where there isn’t one, you will understand why that is so important.
And when he says there should be a religious test – a religious test – for people at our borders, a country founded on religious freedom, you have to ask yourself “Who’s going to conduct the test? Are we going to give a quiz?” And what if the border security official doesn’t believe you, who gets to decide whether you come in or out based on your religion.
And if you haven’t seen it yet, I hope you will go and look at the extraordinary statement by Mr. Khan on YouTube in a new video that we have put out. If you remember, he pulled out a Constitution at our convention, and he reveres our Constitution and for good reason because he too came from a place where there was no rule of law…
So whatever issue you care about, this is an issue that will be decided by this election. And that’s why I’m reaching out to Republicans and Democrats, Independents, everyone.
I know that if we bring our talent, our energy, and our ambition to the work of building our country, we’re going to see the best days of America ahead of us.
And when your children and your grandchildren asks what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll say you voted for a better America.
…Just remember, you’ve got to get out and vote. You’ve got to get everybody you know to get out and vote.
If you don’t know where you’re supposed to go vote, please go to IWillVote.com. You can put your information in and it’s the magic of the Internet, they’ll tell you where you’re supposed to vote.
You can go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to volunteer. Or you can take your phone out right now and text JOIN to 47246.
And if we can get all of you and everybody you know involved in these next 17 days, I will tell you this: It’s easy to forget how far our country has come. There are a lot of people here as I said whose parents and grandparents came as immigrants.
My grandfather, Hugh Rodham, came as an immigrant as a young boy and settled in Scranton, and he went to work in the Scranton lace mills, went to work when he was still in his teens. He worked there until he retired at the age of 65. He believed in our country. He believed in the kind of future that he could get through his hard work.
That’s what I want everybody in our country to believe again.
We’re going to unleash the talents, the innovation, and the energy that brought people like my grandfather here but which we will harness for the future.
Don’t let anybody tell you America’s best days are behind us. Don’t believe that for a minute.
We’re going to pull together. We’re going to make it clear that confidence and optimism, respect for each other, bringing folks together who may disagree but can begin to try to find common ground is what’s always worked and it will work again.
Help us. Help us create that kind of future. And help us prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

Thank you so much!
And hello Kent State!
And Happy Halloween everybody!
It is great to be back in Ohio, even if the World Series is making life very stressful for Cub’s fans everywhere.
I want to thank Bruce Blair for that introduction and for his service to our nation. I think every American should hear this story over the next eight days before they vote.
I also want to thank everyone who was a part of the pre-program, in particular I want to thank Sen. Sherrod Brown. Such a great senator.
My dear friend and great congressman Tim Ryan. State Representative John Boccieri. State Representative Kathleen Clyde.
And let me thank Kent Clark, the acapella group that sang during the pre-program.
My friends, we are about to enter the final week of this election. So I wanted to come back to Ohio, one of the most competitive and consequential battleground states in the country to talk about what’s at stake in this election.

But let me start with this.
I’m sure a lot of you may be asking what this new email story is about and why in the world the FBI would decide to jump into an election with no evidence of wrongdoing with just days to go.
That’s a good question.
And first of all, for those of you who are concerned about my using personal email, I understand. And as I’ve said, I’m not making excuses. I’ve said it was a mistake and I regret it.
And now they apparently want to look at emails of one of my staffers, and by all means, they should look at them.
And I am sure they will reach the same conclusion they did when they looked at my emails for the last year. There is no case here. And they said it wasn’t even a close call.
And I think most people have decided a long time ago what they think about all of this.
Now what people are focused on is choosing the next president and commander-in-chief of the United States of America.
And did any of you [see the] debates? Well, I think it was important because I had a chance to talk about my 30 years of public service and my plans for our country, and then people can weigh that against what my opponent has done and said.
I am running against a man who says he doesn’t understand why we can’t use nuclear weapons. He actually said “Then why are we making them?”
And he wants more countries to have nuclear weapons – Japan, South Korea, even Saudi Arabia.
Imagine – imagine – nuclear weapons smack in the middle of the Middle East.
And if you’re telling yourself he’ll surround himself with smart people who’d stop these crazy ideas, remember this: When he was asked who he consults on foreign policy, Donald Trump said he didn’t need to consult because – and I quote – “I have a very good brain.”
You know, he says he knows more about ISIS than our generals do. No, he does not.
And of course, the people Donald Trump has around him include two men whose activities are reportedly being investigated for their ties to Russia, Vladimir Putin, and Putin’s allies.
So in these last days, let’s not get distracted from the real choice in this election and the consequences for your future.
I started saying last June, I believe, that Donald Trump has proven himself to be temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified to be president and commander-in-chief.
And I’ve got to tell you, I did not take any pleasure in saying that.
I have known – I have known for years now people who ran for president – Republicans and Democrats, and I had my differences with Republicans and even Democrats. But I never doubted their fitness to serve.
Donald Trump is different. That’s as serious as it gets.
So today, I want to talk about national security because when the election is over and people wake up on Nov. 9th, we will have picked the person who will carry the responsibility for all of these weighty decisions. And that should really convince anyone how high the stakes are in this election.
And I just want to focus on three of the most crucial questions facing the next president:
Can you be trusted to command our nuclear arsenal and make literally life and death decisions about war and peace?
How do you handle a crisis?
And do you know the difference between our allies and our adversaries?
We’ll start with nuclear weapons.

Now, I know there are some who will say that any discussion of this topic could be fear-mongering.
But I don’t think so.
And in part because of what you just heard from Bruce Blair.
When dozens of retired nuclear launch officers publicly state that Donald Trump should – and I quote – “not have his finger on the button”, then this is a topic that can’t be avoided.
And I’ve said, Donald has repeatedly suggested more countries should have nuclear weapons. He must not realize or care that the more nuclear material there is in the world, the more likely terrorists are to get their hands on it or that someone will miscalculate and start a war that can’t be stopped.
And when a few more countries go nuclear, their neighbors will feel pressure to do so as well.
One of the reasons I work so hard to impose sanctions on Iran so that we could get them to the negotiating table was so we would not have a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. And I am proud that we put a lid on Iran’s nuclear weapons program.
But even the prospect of an actual nuclear war doesn’t seem to bother Donald Trump. “Good luck. Enjoy yourselves, folks” was what he had to say about a potential nuclear conflict in Asia.
I wonder if he knows that a single nuclear warhead can kill millions of people.
These are weapons today far more powerful than the bombs that destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II.
To talk so casually, so cavalierly about mass annihilation is truly appalling.
President Ronald Reagan once said – and he worked hard for arms control and I admired what he did working with the Soviet Union – and he once said that he feared – and this is a quote from President Reagan – “some fool or some maniac or some accident triggering the kind of war that is end of the line for all of us”.
That has been the fear and the commitment of Democratic and Republican presidents since the dawn of the atomic age.
So what would he think about Donald Trump, who says he wants to be – and I quote – “unpredictable” about using the most powerful weapons ever produced?
And here’s the thing with nuclear weapons. As Bruce told you, when the president gives the order, that’s it. There’s no veto for Congress. No veto by the Joint Chiefs. The officers in the silos have no choice but to fire and that can take as little as four minutes.
That’s why all those retired launch officers stepped forward and said Donald Trump should never be put in charge of our nuclear arsenal.
And when you heard from Bruce Blair, his story is worth remembering.
In 1973, Bruce was a young military officer working in an underground bunker in Montana. His job was to launch as many as 50 nuclear weapons if the president ever gave the order.
Then one night in October as the United States and the Soviet Union squared off over an escalating conflict in the Middle East, the emergency message he had trained for arrive – “Prepare for nuclear war”.
Like other American officers in bunkers and submarines and bombers around the world, Bruce and his colleagues started the process because that was their duty.
They unlocked the safe. They took out the launch code and the keys. And then strapped into their chairs to brace for the shock waves that would come if a Russian warhead detonated above them.
Then they waited for the final order from the president. Thankfully, it never came.
But when Bruce looks at Donald Trump, he sees his hair-triggered temper, and he thinks about what it felt like inside that bunker that night.
As I’ve said many times, a man you can bait with a tweet is not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons.

And that brings me to the second question I think voters should ask about both candidates: How do you handle a crisis?
We’ve seen in this campaign that Donald Trump loses his cool at the slightest provocation, when he’s gotten a tough question from a reporter, when he’s challenged in a debate, when he sees a protester at a rally, when he’s confronted with his own words.
So imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis. Imagine his advisers afraid to tell him what he doesn’t want to hear, racing his legendarily short attention span to lay out life and death choices too complex to be reduced to a single tweet.
And then imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin.
Now, thankfully he’s never been in a position where he had to help make life and death decisions for our country.
But there was one national crisis where we did get a good look at how Donald Trump handles himself.
Donald is a New Yorker, and his finest moment in this campaign [was when he] defended New York against Ted Cruz’s attacks in a debate. And he invoked the days after 9/11 when New Yorkers really came together to take care of each other. I couldn’t agree more.
That’s why it was so upsetting to learn what Donald was actually doing on 9/11.
After the world watched with horror as the twin towers fell, he called into a New York TV station and even on that horrible day when thousands of people lost their lives, he couldn’t stop himself from pointing out that now because the towers had fallen, a building he owned was the tallest in Lower Manhattan.
What kind of person brags at a moment like that? I’ll tell you. Someone who should never set foot in the Oval Office and serve as commander-in-chief.
You know, for me, I take this very personally, my friends, because I was one of New York’s senators along with Chuck Schumer on 9/11. He and I were on the ground the very next day meeting with the governor, the mayor, emergency officials.
And I will never forget the site of Ground Zero. The thick smoke made it hard to breathe or see. Some of the firefighters and other first responders we met have been on duty non-stop since the planes hit the towers. They had all lost friends.
In a makeshift command center, we were briefed on the damage and it was clear we were going to need a lot of help to recover New York and we were going to have to really make it our absolute mission to not only rebuild New York but to keep America safe.
That’s what I did for eight years as a senator. I never stopped fighting to keep our country safe and to ensure that first responders got the medical care they needed.
And I think it’s important to reflect on what each of us has done in moments like that because a lot of the crises that come at a president are not predicted. They happen.
I’ll tell you a quick story. It was after President-elect asked me to be Secretary of State but before the inauguration. And I got a call to come to an emergency meeting in the White House in the Situation Room. And the new Obama national security team was one side of the table and the outgoing Bush national security team was on the other side. And the Bush administration had gotten credible intelligence that there was going to be an attack at our inauguration.
So even before we were sworn in to do our jobs, we were faced with helping to make such a consequential decision.

It really matters what your experience has been, what your values are, whether you can be counted on to make that decision.
You learn a lot about people in moments like that.
And as I sat there with the pressure on, having to think through in my own head how we evaluated this intelligence, how we did everything we could to preserve our inauguration of our first African-American president on the mall in Washington, we made the decision to go forward obviously. Some of you might have been there. But we also did everything we could to double our efforts to find out about the intelligence and to secure the hundreds of thousands of people who would be there.
So you’d have to ask yourself in a crisis who would you trust? Who will listen to good advice, keep a level head and make the right call? Because that’s the person you want as our president and commander-in-chief.
Now, let’s get to the third question for all of the voters to consider. Do you know the difference between our allies and our adversaries?
Now, this may seem like an easy question. If you got it on an exam, I think you’d be able to answer it.
But apparently, it’s hard for Donald. He has picked fights with our friends. I mean, the president of Mexico, the British prime minister, the German chancellor, pretty much the entire nation of Japan, and he even picked a fight with the pope, and at the same time he is praising tyrants and dictators like Saddam Hussein and Kim Jung Un in North Korea and Bashar al Assad for their supposed strong leadership. He even praised the Chinese government for massacring protesters in Tiananmen Square.
Trump has repeatedly suggested he would abandon our allies in Europe and Asia. He’s called NATO “obsolete”.
Obsolete? NATO is the greatest military alliance in the history of the world and it’s based on something. It’s based on something called Article V, which says an attack on one is an attack on all.
And Article V has only been invoked one time – when our allies came to our defense after 9/11. We still have NATO allies fighting side by side, working side by side with American troops in Afghanistan. They joined us in going after Al Qaeda and Bin Laden.
Now we’re supposed to tell them we won’t have their back?
And by the way, right now, our NATO allies are helping identify and track terrorists who threaten America and Europe. They’re hosting radar and missile defense installations that protect us against potential threats from Iran and elsewhere.
And as our NATO forces in Afghanistan stand shoulder to shoulder with American troops, they shared the risks and burdens.
Now, they’re moving into the Baltic States to deter Russian aggression.
Treating our allies like the small businesses and contractors that Trump exploited and stiffed in Atlantic City, hanging them out to dry would make our country and our world less safe.
And it would also play right into the hands of Russia and China, which are envious of our alliances and see them weakened or fail.
But maybe that’s the point. Because what’s most striking about all of this and I would argue most important for voters to consider is the relationship between Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
As former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright put it, and I quote her, “we have never seen a mind meld of the kind between the Russian leadership and a candidate for the presidency of the United States.”

Michael Morell, who ran the CIA and grew up just a few miles from here, has said that Putin is manipulating Donald.
Putin is a trained intelligence officer from the old KGB. He knows he can use flattery to get into Donald’s head to make Donald the Kremlin’s puppet. And it seems to be working.
Donald has signaled to Putin that he will let Russia do whatever it wants from Ukraine to Syria and beyond.
He’s even said Putin is a stronger leader than President Obama.
And it gets worse. The U.S. intelligence community has now confirmed that the Russian government, which means Putin, is directing cyber attacks against targets in the United States to influence the outcome of our election.
So ask yourself: Why would Putin be trying to get Donald Trump elected president? Could it be because of all the nice things Donald has said about him? Or about the fact that he has promised to adopt pro-Kremlin policies? Or maybe because of the extensive business dealings with Russian oligarchs to ties with Putin?
Now since Donald won’t release his tax returns, and don’t hold your breadth, we don’t know the full extent of his business relationships.
But what we know is disturbing, and we know this: We are dealing with something unprecedented in the history of our country. A foreign adversary trying to influence [our] presidential election. That should scare everyone – Democrat, Republicans, and Independents.
And with the election just eight days away, this can’t wait any longer.
Donald Trump should immediately disclose all of his ties and connections to the Kremlins and his associates’.
The American people deserve to know the full extent of these links and how they relate to what the Russians are doing in our election.
Because when you step back and take it all in, it’s no surprise that 50 Republican national security experts wrote an open letter saying they will not vote for Donald Trump because he would be, in their words, “the most reckless president in American history.”
And it’s no surprise that not a single former president, secretary of state or national security adviser from either party has endorsed him.
And it’s no surprise that Bob Gates – Bob Gates who served eight presidents over 50 years – Democrats and Republicans alike – has said Trump is – and I quote – “beyond repair, stubbornly uninformed about the world and how to lead our country and government, temperamentally unsuited to lead our men and women in uniform, unqualified and unfit to be commander-in-chief.”
So, I hope you and voters across Ohio and America will think about all of these national security issues when you cast your vote in this election. Think about what it takes to lead and how we want to secure the safety of our country, our children, and our grandchildren, and who’s best prepared to do that. Because make no mistake, that really is on the ballot this year.

It’s not just my name and Donald Trump’s name. It’s our future. Our security. Our values. It’s who we are as a country.
Donald Trump has a dark and divisive vision for America that could tear our country apart.
But the good news is there is another vision for America. Instead of dark and divisive, it’s hopeful and inclusive and optimistic and unifying.
And it is big-hearted, not small-minded. It is about lifting people up, not tearing each other down.
It is a vision that as says as I believe in my heart a vision that says we are stronger together.
Millions of people across our country are standing up and saying we believe in America that is great because it is good. That’s Democrats, Republicans, Independents.
Because we believe in an America where women are respected, an America where veterans are honored, parents are supported, workers are paid fairly, an America where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong, an America that leads in the world and lives up to our values, where everyone counts, everyone has a place, where the American dream is big enough for everyone.
This goes way beyond politics and partisanship. We’re really talking about what it means to be an American in the 21st century, about the basic lessons we want to teach boys and girls, our kids and grandkids.
It turns out if you dig deep enough through all the mud of politics, eventually you hit something hard and true – a foundation of fundamental values that unite us Americans – basic beliefs about equality and opportunity and freedom and common decency.
That is something to defend and build on. And in the end, that is what this election is all about.
And here in Ohio, you can make the difference.
Early voting has already begun so now is the time.
Every phone call you make, every door you knock on moves us forward. You can go to HillaryClinton.com and volunteer…
You know, sometimes if you’ve studied history, you know the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in time. This is one of those make or break moments for the United States.
And it truly is in your hands as it should be.
So when your kids and grandkids asked what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll be able to say, I voted for a better, stronger, fairer America – a place where our future will be created and charted by people who have confidence that the best days of America are still ahead of us, particularly young people who I believe absolutely should help make that future.
So let’s come together. Let us make clear that we’re going to stand up for an America that we believe in because that America believes in us. And we’re going to prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you!

Wow! Thank you! Thank you so much!
Wow, it is great to be back in Cincinnati!
What a beautiful night on the banks of this magnificent river. I am grateful to all of you.
I am thrilled to be here with my dear friends, Mark and Gabby, and with all of you because there are just eight days left in what is the most important election of our lifetimes.
Are you ready to work hard in this election and win it?
Are you ready to send Ted Strickland to the United States Senate?
You know, I’ve known Ted a long time. He is a champion for workers and families. He knows that Ohio needs more good jobs with rising wages, and he is the kind of person who will actually work to get things done, breaking through the gridlock in Washington.
And this is important, unlike his opponent, Ted Strickland has never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
…[Acknowledgments of public officials]
And we are so fortunate to have two other champions for American families with us today.
I am awed by the courage and commitment that both Mark and Gabby bring to their work to do everything they can to help save lives in America.
You know, as Gabby says everyday when goes out, “Fight, fight, fight!” and fight she does. She fights to make sure that we save lives and we prevent injuries and we do it together to end the epidemic of gun violence that threatens our children, our fellow men and women, our country.
And Gabby and Mark know something very important…[inaudible]…a big majority of Americans including a majority of gun owners to stand behind and achieve common sense gun safety measures. And I am looking forward to working with them as their partner.
You know, you go through life. You go through the campaigns. There are ups and there are downs.
And you know, my mother who had a really difficult life she told me something that has stayed with me and certainly has come in handy in this campaign: “Everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get back up.”
And throughout this campaign, I have stayed focused on one thing – you, your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. Because that’s really what this election is all about.
It’s not about the noise and the distractions. It’s about what kind of country we want for our kids and what kind of president can help get us there.
You know, I have so much that I want to do with you on behalf of Cincinnati and Ohio and America, and whether or not I get the chance to serve you really depends upon what happens in this election.

Now, earlier today, I was up at Kent State – a great university – and I told them about some of the reasons why I think it’s really important to get everybody out to vote in this election.
But I started by saying that you know there’s this new email story about why in the world the FBI would decide to jump into an election without evidence of any wrongdoing with just days to go.
That’s a really good question. But I want you to know, look, I’ve said repeatedly, you know, I made a mistake. I’m not making any excuses. But I will tell you this. If they want to look at some more emails of one of my staffers, by all means, go ahead, look at them. And I know they will reach the same conclusion they reached when they looked at my emails last year. Right?
It wasn’t even a close call.
And I think most people have moved on. They’re looking and focused on okay, who is going to be the next president and commander-in-chief?
Did any of you see the debates? Any of you see the debates?
Well, I get a little bit of the chant. You know, I did stand there for 4.5 hours with Donald Trump, proving conclusively I have the stamina to do the job.
But I did occasionally get a chance to, you know, ask people to take a look at my 30 years of public service, my plans for our country, what Tim Kaine and I have said we want to do, and then weigh that against my opponent, what he’s done and said.
I am running against someone who says he doesn’t understand why we can’t use nuclear weapons. He actually said, “Then why are we making them?”
He wants more countries to have nuclear weapons. He’s mentioned Japan, South Korea, even Saudi Arabia.
Now, if you are hoping that he might surround himself with good people who’d stop his crazy ideas, remember this: When he was asked who he consults with on foreign policy, Donald Trump said he didn’t need to consult because – and I quote – “I have a very good brain.”
He says he knows more about ISIS than our generals do. No, Donald, you don’t.
And of course, the people that Donald Trump has around him include two men whose activities are also reportedly being investigated because of their ties to Russia, Vladimir Putin, and their allies.
So in these last days, let’s not get distracted from the real choice in this election.
Donald Trump has proven himself to be temperamentally unfit and totally unqualified to be president and commander-in-chief.
I have to tell you, it does not give me any pleasure saying that. It’s not a small thing.
I have watched and known a lot of the people who have run for president, both Republicans and Democrats. And look, I’ve had my disagreements with Republicans. I might have disagreed on policies or principles. But I never doubted their fitness to serve in this office.
Donald Trump is different. And that’s why there is so much at stake in this election.
He has a dark and divisive vision for America that could tear our country apart.
Abraham Lincoln understood a house divided against itself cannot stand, and that was over the greatest of challenges – the challenge posed by slavery – and we fought a civil war.
But we also have to take stock of how divided we are today – the kinds of divisions that need to be healed to bring people together.
I will tell you this. I want to bring not just Democrats but Republicans and Independents, people who vote for me and people who vote against me together.
Because I have a very different vision of America. Instead of dark and divisive, it’s hopeful and inclusive. It’s big-hearted, not small-minded.
…

It is about lifting people up, not putting them down.
It’s a vision that says – and I believe this with all my heart – we are stronger together.
And America is great because America is good. Never forget that.
Yes, we have our flaws. Of course, we’re only humans. But what we have done over the course of our history to keep widening the circle of opportunity and equality and freedom is unlike any other place in the history of the world.
So we want an America where women are respected, where our veterans are honored, where parents and families are supported and workers are paid fairly.
And we believe in an America where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong, an America that leads in the world and lives up to our values, where everyone counts, everyone has a place, and the American dream is big enough for everybody.
So the choice cannot be clearer and the stakes could not be higher.
When I was at Kent State talking about the threats that Donald Trump poses to our national security, I was really struck – it was a really big crowd and it was primarily students.
And you know, I thought to myself, I’m not going to give a rah-rah speech because I really want to talk about what this means to national security.  And I was introduced by a gentleman by the name of Bruce Blair, a former Air Force officer in charge of the nuclear codes and keys – a launch officer.
And he came out for me along with now more than 30 launch officers and basically they’ve said we cannot support Donald Trump because he should never ever be near the nuclear codes and keys.
And even the prospect of an actual nuclear war doesn’t seem to bother him.
“Good luck. Enjoy yourselves, folks” is what he had to say about a potential nuclear conflict in Asia.
I wonder if he knows that a single – a single – nuclear warhead can kill millions of people.
You know, that is why dozens of retired nuclear launch officers took the unprecedented step of saying that Donald should – and I quote – “not have his finger on the button”.
And when it comes to handling a crisis, we’ve seen in this campaign that Donald Trump loses his cool at the slightest provocation or when he’s gotten a tough question from a reporter or when he’s challenged in a debate or when he sees a protester at a rally or when he’s confronted with his own words.
So imagine him in the Oval Office facing a real crisis. Imagine him plunging us into a war because somebody got under his very thin skin.
I hope you’ll think about that when you cast your vote in this election. Think about what it takes to lead in a very complicated world and in whose hands you want to put the safety of our children and grandchildren.
And think about the difference between electing a president who will do nothing and a president who will tackle the epidemic of gun violence in America.
You know, as Gabby knows so well, 33,000 Americans a year are killed by guns. Thousands more are injured. It’s an average of 90 people a day dying.
Here in Ohio, more people are killed by guns than die in car crashes.
We have seen movie goers gunned down in theaters. Little children killed in their classrooms. Club goers massacred in Orlando. Nine faithful people murdered at Bible study in Charleston, South Carolina.
…

And we’ve seen far too many young African-American men and women killed by gun violence, which is now the leading cause of death for young black men.
And when we think about that, we think of Dontre Hamilton or Jordan Davis or Trayvon Martin and others.
I’ve had the great honor of getting to know their mothers who have turned their grief into action and their mourning into a movement.
But here’s what I want to say, if anything else in our country were killing as many people – people of good faith, people who believe like we do in the Second Amendment, people who own guns, people who go hunting, people who are collectors – we would say, “Hey, wait a minute. This can’t go on.”
We need comprehensive background checks to close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole.
And we know here in Ohio a majority of gun owners support these common sense steps to prevent gun violence because they know we can respect the Second Amendment and keep our kids and communities safe at the same time.
And we need to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. If you are too dangerous to fly, you are too dangerous to buy a gun. Period.
And look, there is a very clear difference. Donald Trump won’t stand up to the gun lobby. He’s sold out to them.
In fact, the gun lobby is spending more on ads to get Donald Trump elected than any other group. More than $7 million in Ohio alone.
And in return, Donald Trump has promised to repeal President Obama’s actions to strengthen criminal background checks.
Donald says guns should be allowed in nightclubs that serve alcohol. He’s even said on his very first day in office, he would require every school in America to let people carry guns into our classroom.
How can anyone think our schools would be safer with more guns?
So I have stood up to the gun lobby for years, which is why they are running all these ads against me, and I will stand up to them as president.
I will work with Gabby and Mark and Americans for Responsible Solutions to pass common sense reforms, because we’ve got to keep guns out of the wrong hands and help save lives.
I will also get up everyday in the White House working my heart out for you.
Whatever I can do to knock down barriers to empower people, to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top, that’s how I was raised.
I was raised to believe that if you work hard, and I believe in hard work, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead in America.
And I will never ever quit on you.
When I tell you I am going to try to do something that will make a positive difference in your life, I don’t care about the political or other barriers are. We’re going to find a way over, under, around or through until we get it done.
I’ve been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life and I’m not stopping now.
So just remember when our opponents go low, we go high.
We’re not going to be distracted. We’re not going to be knocked off course. We know how much this election matters.
And everything all of you can do between now and the time that the polls close is going to really count.
Now, the Donald Trump campaign strategy is pretty simple. They’ve announced it. Their strategy is get women to stay home, get young people to stay home, and get people of color to stay home.
It’s all part of his scorched Earth campaign but it actually adds up to more than half of our population when you stop to think about it. And it goes against everything we stand for.

So if you’re as upset as I am by the campaign that he has run, the things he has said, insulting not just women but immigrants, Latinos, African-Americans, prisoners of war, Muslims, veterans, the military. I mean the list goes on and on.
It’s almost impossible to understand how somebody can run for president who seems not to like America as much as he does.
So, you know the best way to stop him? By showing up with the biggest turnout in history.
We need more Americans to vote and I think we have a chance to get more Americans from all walks of life to vote.
Because we’re already seeing record turnout. 23 million people have already voted in this election and more than 1 million of them are right here in Ohio.
There is no doubt if we vote, we win.
So, please if you haven’t voted early, please do so. And please get your friends and your family and everybody you know to vote. Take people to vote with you. Try to help those who might have a little problem getting there.
Make sure everybody you know understands early voting has begun.
And you can go to IWillVote.com to find your nearest early voting location.
Because make no mistake, whatever issue you care about – I’ve only mentioned a few tonight, but whatever issue you care about is on the ballot.
Now, maybe my name and my opponent’s name – but where we stand on these issues, what we’ve done in the past, what we have said we want to do in the future, that is all on the ballot.
The future of our economy is at stake, of our education system is at stake.
Fighting climate change and clean renewable energy jobs is at stake.
LGBT equality is at stake.
Equal pay for women is at stake.
Actually in the end, the American dream itself is at stake.
So I want you think about how you’ll feel on Nov. 9th.
Happy!
I think that’s the right answer!
But just suppose you go to bed early, suppose you go to bed early, maybe you were too busy to vote or maybe you didn’t make calls or knock on doors, I want you to imagine, so you get up early in the morning of the 9th and you log on to the news to find out, hey, what’s going on? Or maybe you turn on the TV…and you hear. I want you to really understand what that means for you and for all of us.
Because I prefer for us to be motivated by what we’re for, not what we’re against.
But I also think it’s prudent to imagine what could happen if we don’t do our part.
And when in the future somebody asks you, maybe your kids or your grandkids, what did you do when everything was on the line, I want you to be able to say, “I voted for a better, fairer, stronger America.”
Let’s go out and in these next eight days do everything we can to make it clear we’re going after the kind of future that includes everybody.
We’re going to build this economy, new jobs, rising wages. We’re going to make college affordable and help you pay down your student debt. We are going to do what will give you the best chance for your own lives and the lives of our kids and our grandkids.
So if we build that future together, we will be able to say we were part of making sure that America’s best days are still ahead of us.
And we will prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you all!

Hello Dade City! Wow! I am so excited about being here. Thank you all for this really warm, wonderful welcome.
And I think on behalf of all of us, I want to thank Alicia Machado for that introduction and for sharing her story with us.
Alicia will be voting for the very first time in this election, and I am very grateful for her support.
I’m also delighted that we’re joined today by your great senator, Bill Nelson, and his wife, Grace.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
And I especially want to thank all of you for not just joining us but helping us to get out the vote in this last week.
It’s almost hard to believe, isn’t it? There are only seven days left in this election.
So are you ready to vote? Are you ready to volunteer these last seven days?
I hope too that you are ready to elect Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate.
Patrick, who’s been in Congress, will be an independent voice for Florida families. And I am so excited to think about what he could do because unlike his opponent, he’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
And somebody asked me the other day, “Why do you keep coming back to Florida?”
Just look around, folks. I mean, it’s a beautiful place and I have lots of friends.
But it’s also really important in this election. Florida can decide who our next president is, which will affect the nation and the world.
And I want to make sure that every voter in Florida spends these next seven days thinking about what’s at stake in this election because honestly, I believe this may be the most important election of our lifetimes.
One week from today, we will be choosing our next president and commander-in-chief of the United States.
I don’t think the choice could be any clearer.
You know, I have spent my career fighting for children and families. I have served in the United States Senate, served on the Armed Services Committee. I was in the Situation Room when we brought Osama Bin Laden to justice.
I represented you as your Secretary of State, going to 112 countries, negotiating with friend and foe alike.
I am ready to serve if you give me the great honor of being your president.
Now, I do have to say that I think that stands in contrast to my opponent.
And you know, maybe for you if you think about all of the issues that separate Donald Trump from me, it could be his dangerous statements about nuclear weapons.
When a journalist told Donald Trump that people were worried about how casually he talks about nuclear weapons, he said, “Well then why are we making them?”

And I have to tell you, yesterday, I was in Ohio and I was introduced by a gentleman who was one of our officers in charge of launching nuclear weapons if the order ever came from our president.
And what he told the crowd – it was a big crowd at Kent State University – I think every voter should hear.
Basically, his name was Bruce Blair. He said that having had the responsibility of sitting in a bunker being responsible for the codes and the keys to our nuclear weapons, he knows that when a president make the order to launch a nuclear attack, there is no appeal. There is no veto.
And that is why he has joined with dozens of former Air Force officers to send a letter to say we need a president with the temperament, the steadiness, the calmness to be in charge of nuclear weapons and therefore they cannot support Donald Trump because he does not have the temperament to be our commander-in-chief and handle those responsibilities.
So when you think about voting – early voting this week, voting next Tuesday – responsibility for our nuclear weapons is on the ballot.
So is immigration.
Do we want to round up millions of people who are here working, raising their families, as he has suggested he will do? I don’t think so.
I think what we want is to bring them out of the shadows so they can’t be exploited by employers like Donald Trump who refused to hire Americans and hired undocumented workers so he can pay them less. I don’t think that’s right.
Now maybe for some of you what Donald Trump said about prisoners of war will be enough reason to vote against him. Somebody who questioned the patriotism and the service of John McCain because he was a prisoner of war.
We need a commander-in-chief who respects the service and sacrifice of the men and women who wear our uniform.
Or maybe for some of you, it’s what he said about a judge, born in Indiana, who just happened to be assigned the case brought by people who were defrauded by the phony Trump University. And so Trump said, well, we can’t trust him because his parents were born in Mexico.
Now, Paul Ryan, the Republican Speaker of the House, called – well, wait a minute – he called what Trump said about that distinguished federal judge the “definition of a racist comment”.
And then Trump went on to attack a Gold Star family whose son, Captain Khan, died defending our country simply because that family was Muslim.
And then let’s not forget, Trump spent years – years – insisting that President Obama was not born in the United States even after the birth certificate was produced.
Honestly, if this were something new, I think we’d all be asking ourselves, well, what does he have against President Obama? What does he have against me?
But this is not new.
I know I’m reaching out to Republicans and Independents as well as Democrats because I want to be the president for all Americans.
And here’s what I want you to tell. I want you to tell your Republican friends, in 1987, Donald Trump took out a $100,000 ad in the New York Times to criticize President Reagan. He said, “Our leaders are the laughing stock of the world.”
So this is a man who thinks that he is better than President Reagan, better than President Obama, literally better than anybody, I guess.

And when you think about it, what he said at the convention, “I alone can fix it” runs counter to who we are as Americans. We work together.
So there are many reasons why I think it is fair to conclude that Donald Trump is unqualified and unfit to be president.
But today, I just want to spend a few minutes focusing in particular about what he has said and what he has done to women and girls because, you know, any of you see the debates?
You know, I stood next to Donald for 4.5 hours during those three debates, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be president of the United States.
And during those debates, you know, Donald always used to say, “Oh, what have you been doing for 30 years?” And I always find that kind of odd because he can Google it and find out.
And so you know, I’ve been a lawyer. I’ve been a First Lady. And I’ve been a senator. And I’ve been Secretary of State.
And I’ve been a wife, a mother, and a grandmother, and a friend and a church goer.
And for my entire life, I’ve been a woman.
And when I think about what we now know about Donald Trump and what he’s been doing for 30 years, he sure has spent a lot of time demeaning, degrading, insulting, and assaulting women.
And I’ve got to tell you, some of what we’ve learned, some of this stuff is very upsetting.
I would frankly rather be here talking about nearly anything else, like how we’re going to create more good jobs and get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top, how we’re going to make college affordable for every single family.
Because I have a plan that if your family makes less than $125,000, you will not pay tuition to go to a state college or university.
And if you’re above that, it will be debt free and we will help you pay back the debt you already have so you can get out from under it.
But I can’t just talk about all the good things we want to do because people are making up their minds. This is a consequential choice.
So we’ve got to talk about something that frankly is painful because it matters. We can’t just wish it away.
And you know, a lot of his supporters don’t like to hear this. I don’t blame them. If I were supporting him, I wouldn’t want to hear it either to be honest.
But I’ve got to tell you, I learned way back in elementary school and I learned it in Sunday school, you know, it’s not okay to insult people. It’s not okay.
And look at what he does. He calls women “ugly”, “disgusting”, “nasty” all the time. He calls women “pigs”, rates bodies on a scale from 1 to 10.
We just heard from Alicia. She was Miss Universe when Donald Trump owned the pageant.
Well, he said she’d put on some weight and it made him angry and so he called her “Miss Piggy”. Called her “Miss Housekeeping” because she’s a beautiful Latina.
He brought a bunch of reporters to a gym to watch him order her around to exercise.
Now, you know, he also said, “This is somebody who likes to eat.” Well, I have to say who doesn’t like to eat?
I mean, really, can we stop for a minute and reflect on the absurdity of Donald Trump finding fault with Miss Universe?
But you’ve got to ask – why does he do these things? Who acts like this? And I’ll tell you who – a bully. That’s who.

And thankfully, Alicia refuses to let such a small person get her down. She knows that Donald Trump – Donald Trump doesn’t get to decide her value in her eyes and in the eyes of her family and her friends.
But what about our girls? What about girls watching all this? What happens to their confidence? Their sense of self worth?
If you’ve got a daughter, a granddaughter, a sister, a mother, a wife, a good friend, someone like this becoming president who insults more than half the population of  the United States of America?
And what about our boys? This is not someone we want them looking up to.
You know, not so long ago, I was the mother of a teenage girl, and you know, everyday I tried to make sure that she knew she was smart and she was capable. And I’m doing the same thing with my granddaughter and my grandson.
Because let’s be honest here. The world has a way of telling our girls exactly the opposite – they don’t look right, they’re not thin enough, they don’t act right, no one will like them unless they change their clothes or straighten their hair or stop being bossy or whatever the criticism might be. Right?
And I remember when Chelsea was a teenager, I would wait on the second floor of the White House in the long hall that’s there for her to come home from school. And sometimes we only had a few minutes together.
But before she’d run off to talk to her friends or do whatever she was planning to, I would figure out how was the day. You know, we’d talk about what was on her mind. And that time together was really valuable to me as a parent.
Because we parents and I know there are a lot of parents here today, we work hard to give our kids a sense of confidence to send them out into the world believing in their own value. And it really is important that we don’t let anybody take that away from them, and we want them to be strong. We don’t want them to feel bad about themselves.
And we’ve got to work hard to make sure our boy, just like our girls, have that same sense of positive energy, not negative, not tearing people down, lifting people up and respective women.
In fact, all of us should respect each other in our country.
And so when I look at my granddaughter and my grandson, I am on the same mission. I want them to know they’re loved, they’re cared for, they’re respected. I want them to develop a good work ethic. I believe in hard work. And I want them to go out and prove themselves in the world.
But that’s what I want for every child.
I have spent my life doing everything I could to help kids and families. It will be the mission of my presidency. I will get up everyday in the White House trying to figure out how can we knock down the barriers, overcome the challenges so that people living here in Pasco County can get ahead and stay ahead.
So I know there’s work to be done. We can’t do it with just words alone. We’ve got to do more to stop treatment about women being somehow objectified.
And oh my gosh, when we heard that tape and we heard what he does to women, I’m not going to repeat it, but you know what Donald Trump was bragging about. Grabbing women. Mistreating women.
And I have to tell you since that tape came out, 12 women have come forward to say, “What he said on that tape is what he did to me.”
And then we heard his response. What he does at his rallies is to go after those women all over again, insulting them.
He said he couldn’t possibly have said those things because the women weren’t attractive enough to assault.
“Look at her,” he said about one woman. “I don’t think so.”
About another, he said, “She wouldn’t be my first choice.”
He’s also on tape bragging with the radio personality Howard Stern about how he used to go backstage at his beauty pageants and he would barge in on women while they were getting dressed.
He said he did that to “inspect them”. That was his words.

And he said, “I sort of got away with things like that.”
And sure enough, contestants have come forward to say, “Yes, that’s exactly what he did to us.”
Now, as bad as that is, he didn’t just do it at the Miss USA Pageant or the Miss Universe Pageant. He’s also been accused of doing this at the Miss Teen USA Pageant.
Contestants say that Donald Trump came to look at them when they were changing. Some of them were just 15 years old.
We cannot hide from this. We’ve got to be willing to face it. This man wants to be president of the United States of America.
And our wonderful First Lady Michelle Obama spoke for many of us when she said that Donald Trump’s words had shaken her to her core.
For a lot of women who’ve gone through something like this in your lives, that’s brought back painful memories.
And for men who would never ever talk or act like Donald, it’s been shocking to see this.
He tried to explain it away as “locker room talk”. Well, I’ll tell you what, a lot of professional athletes stood up and said, “Not in our locker rooms. That does not happen.”
But I guess the bottom line is he thinks belittling women makes him a bigger man, and I don’t think there’s a woman anywhere who doesn’t know what that feels like.
He doesn’t see us as full human beings with our own dreams, our own purposes, our own capabilities, and he has shown that clearly throughout this campaign.
Well, he is very wrong. He is wrong about both the women and the men of this country.
He has shown us who he is. Let us on Tuesday show him who we are.
We can stand up for what we believe, what we want for our children and our grandchildren, and what we know is right.
And you can go down the list of everything he has said. He doesn’t believe in equal pay. He thinks pregnancy is an inconvenience. He will raise the minimum wage. And he said if he comes home and dinner is not on the table, he gets angry.
Instead of supporting women who are out there supporting their families, he wants to make it even harder.
Well, I have a message for him.
We’re going to fight for Affordable Child Care.
We are going to fight for equal pay for all people.
We’re going to fight for paid family leave.
We’re going to fight to make sure everybody gets rising wages in America, and that’s important because so many people are still struggling, still working hard, raising a family, having a hard time getting all of their bills paid, and that’s especially true for minimum wage workers – two-thirds of whom are women.
So we’ve got work to do, my friends. I’m excited because I know we can do this. And I will stand up and I will fight for you. I will work for you. I will give my heart to this mission of making our country all it should be.
Because instead of Donald Trump’s dangerous and divisive vision, mine is positive, optimistic, hopeful, and unifying.
But I can’t do any of this without your help.
Early voting has already begun. Almost 26 million Americans have already voted. And that includes 4 million right here in Florida!
Americans are voting for the kind of better future we can make together and voting on all the issues that they care about.
It may be my name and Donald’s name on the ballot but everything you care about – our security, our economy, bringing our country together, the environment, clean water and clean air.

Here in Dade City, you can vote everyday from now until Nov. 5th from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.
In fact, right now the East Pasco government center just a few minutes’ drive away, you can go there right after this rally and vote.
Because we need everybody to stand up in this election.
If you’ve got a mail-in ballot at home, send it home when you get home today. Don’t wait to send it back.
Talk to your friends and family and your neighbors and your co-workers.
And you know, Donald Trump’s strategy is pretty simple. He said he wants to suppress young people from voting, women from voting, people of color from voting. I mean, that’s a lot of people.
By showing up with the biggest turnout ever, we will send him and everybody a message that that’s not who we are.
Now, I know here in this county and this larger region, you probably know some people who are going to vote for Trump. And here’s what I want to ask you – I want you to talk with them, ask them what they care about, ask them what kind of future they want for our country.
Because Donald Trump’s economic plan is to cut taxes on the wealthy and big corporations.
I have said I want the wealthy to pay their fair share and I will not raise taxes on anybody making less than $250,000 a year.
So there could not be – no matter what you care about – a bigger difference between me and Donald Trump.
And I hope that you will come out and volunteer for these last seven days.
We are signing people up for volunteer shifts, making calls, knocking on doors. It really matters. Turnout matters.
Please go to HillaryClinton.com to see how you can get involved.
And here’s what I want to leave you with.
You know, I feel like so many of you that our country already is great but we can make it greater.
And the main reason America is great is because America is good.
We are a big-hearted generous, not a small-minded people.
We know that is everybody works together, we will get farther together than if we separate people, we push them down, we engage in all the negativity we’ve heard too much about in this campaign.
But sometimes the fate of even the greatest nations lie in the balance, and for America, this is one of those make or break elections. It really is in your hands.
And I hope you will think about how you will feel the day after the election on Nov. 9th.
Are we going forward together? Or are we going to be pulled backwards by someone who wants to bully us?
And I hope – I hope you will think about how together we can make a difference. I want to be your partner as well as your president.
I want us to create the best possible future for our children and our grandchildren. That is what I will work my heart out to do, and I hope you will help me to make a better, fairer, stronger America where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

Hello, Fort Lauderdale! Wow!
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you all so much!
And thank you for being out here on this beautiful night. It is great to be back with all of you.
…[Public acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
And I have to tell I am really excited and very hopeful that you will send Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate!
So let me thank all of the elected officials who are here because this is a big deal. There are only now seven days in the most important election of our lifetimes.
We cannot take anything, anybody, anywhere for granted.
Are you ready to work hard and win this election?
Well, that is exactly the right answer because we need to do everything we possibly can between now and the time the polls close one week from tonight.
Because any issue you care about, anything is at stake.
I get sometimes a little overwhelmed by the fact that I love this country. I think we already are great. Now, I think we can be greater.
And you know, I am sick and tired of the negative, dark, divisive, dangerous vision and behavior of people who support Donald Trump.

It is time for us to say, “No, we are not going backwards. We’re going forward into a brighter future.”
So how do we that?
Well, for the next seven days, we focus on what’s important. Don’t get distracted. Don’t get diverted. Focus on the kind of country and world that we want to help create.
That’s what I’ve done. I have stayed focused on one thing – on you, on your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. And that’s what I’m doing now because I know the day after the election, that’s what really counts.
Ask yourself – what kind of president and commander-in-chief do we need to get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top?
Who can keep us safe and lead the world with intelligence and steadiness and strength?
Who can began to heal the divides that have been exacerbated between us and bringing Americans together again?
Well, I’ll tell you what, Donald Trump has proven himself to be temperamentally unfit and unqualified to be president of the United States.
And you know, I don’t say that about everybody.
I have known a lot of the people who ran for president on both sides – Republicans and Democrat. I disagreed with them. Don’t get me wrong. But I never thought they were unfit to serve.
Donald Trump is different. He has proven himself unfit.
And what he is doing with his conspiracy theories, with his insulting, with his demeaning and degrading millions of Americans prove he should not be allowed anywhere near the White House.
You know, on the one hand, you got to feel kind of sorry about the kind of campaign he’s running. Don’t you?
I mean, he starts off by insulting immigrants. He moves on to insult all Latinos, insults African-Americans, insults Muslims, insults people with disabilities, insults POWs, and then insults women.

I mean, really, by the time you add up all the people he’s insulted that’s more than half the population of the United States.
But here’s the good news. The good news is there’s another vision for America that’s on the ballot.
Instead of dark and divisive, it is hopeful and inclusive. It is big-hearted, not small-minded. It’s about lifting people up, not tearing each other down.
It’s a vision that says – and I believe this with all my heart – that we are stronger together. There is nothing we can do if we make up our minds to do it.
And we believe in an America that is great because it is good.
We believe in an America where women are respected, where veterans are honored, where parents are supported, where workers are paid fairly.
We believe in an America of second chances where people who have served their debt to society get a real chance to rebuild their lives, where we can end the school to prison pipeline and build a cradle to college pipeline instead.
We believe in an America that will lead the world in the fight against climate change and create millions of clean energy jobs.
We believe in an America where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong.
We believe in an America that leads in the world and lives up to our values, an America where women finally get equal pay for the work we do.
We believe in an America where we will raise the national minimum wage so no one working full-time will still be in poverty.
We believe in an America where we will defeat terrorists because we will work with our allies in order to put together the coalition that can do that.
We believe in an America where we know the difference between our allies and our adversaries.
We believe in an America where we’re finally going to do something about the violence of gun epidemics that kill 33,000 people a year.
We believe in an America where every young person can afford to go to college and not go into debt.
We believe in an America where we’re going to help people who already have student debt pay it back faster, more cheaply, saving money.
We believe in an America where we’re going to provide quality affordable health care to every person and that includes bringing down the cost of prescription drugs and guaranteeing the security of Medicare.
We believe in an America where Social Security is a solemn promise. We will not privatize it. We will not turn it over to Wall Street like my opponent wants to do.
We believe in an America where people making less than $250,000 should not have an increase in their federal income taxes but the wealthy should pay their fair share.

We believe in an America where we grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the discredited trickle-down economics that Donald Trump has been advocating for.
And you know, by the way, we believe in an America where if somebody claims he’s worth $10 billion, you ought to pay some federal income taxes.
Hey, did any of you see the debates?
Well, you know, I spent 4.5 hour standing next to Donald Trump, which proves conclusively I have the stamina to do this job. Right?
But one of the things I said, which you know, I just – when I learned it and studied it and realized what it meant, it just sort of stunned me.
I’m standing next to a guy who flies around in a big jet, flies around in a helicopter, has his name on those, has his name on buildings. And actually one-half of the working undocumented immigrants in America pay more in federal income tax than he does.
We believe in an America where we’re going to finally have comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
We believe in an America where women are treated with respect. And as I was in Pasco County earlier today talking about what’s at stake in this election, I was introduced by a former Miss Universe Pageant winner Alicia Machado, who Donald Trump has insulted and denigrated.
And really, you know, if you’re Miss Universe, you look pretty good. Right?
But Donald Trump called her “Miss Piggy”, insulted her heritage, called her “Miss Housekeeping” because she’s a Latina.
Well, I was proud of her. She doesn’t let such a small person get her down.
But I got to say when I listen to what he says and how he talks about women and what he has bragged about doing to women, I want all the girls in America to know you are valuable. You should feel good about yourselves. Don’t let somebody like this bully tell you otherwise.
And I want to say to all the young boys – show respect because that shows you you’re a real man and you will stand up for what is right.
So you know, literally, I mean this is so much fun. But it’s really late. I mean, I could be here all night talking about what’s at stake in this election.
But I think you already know because you’ve been out here and you’ve been willing to be here with me because we know that we’ve got to turn out the vote.
And what that means that every one of you who can should vote early.
How many of you have already voted?

Well, that doesn’t surprise me because 4 million people in Florida have already voted.
But there are millions more that we’ve got to get to go out and vote.
And here’s what I hope you will do. Talk to your friends, your family members, your co-workers.
It’s pretty easy to vote early in Florida. There are lots of different places in this county and every other neighboring county for you to go to.
And it’s important to tell people who got ballots in the mail, fill them out and send them in because we need everybody to step up.
And remember, there’s no state where it’s more important. You know what happened in 2000. Right?
I was with Al Gore in Miami, and he can tell you better than anyone every vote counts, especially here in Broward County.
And you know, this is not complicated. If people who support our positive, inclusive, unifying vision vote, we win.
And we will make history on Nov. 8th.
So if you’ve already voted, come work with us. Make some of the calls. We’re making millions of calls, knocking on thousands – hundreds of thousands of doors – to encourage everybody to be sure to vote.
And you know, you can vote right near here at the African-American research library but there are dozens of other sites.
And all sites in Broward County are open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day until Nov. 6th.
So if you don’t know where you’re supposed to vote, that’s easy too. You can go to IWillVote.com and that will tell you the nearest early voting location to where you live.
And I want you to also do me another favor. If you know anybody who says they’re thinking of voting for Trump, I want you to stage an intervention.
And I want you to talk to this person because unless they’re a billionaire who avoided paying taxes for 20 years and lost $1 billion running casinos, they don’t have anything to gain from Donald Trump. In fact, they do have so much to lose.
Every single issue we care about may not be actually listed on the ballot but make no mistake it’s on there.
And talk to your friend or your co-worker and say, “You know, really, you may be angry about something but anger is not a plan. Don’t be used. Don’t be exploited. Stand up for what we can do together.”
Because that’s what this election ultimately comes down to. It’s about our future. It’s about who we are as a country.
And I promise you this. If you give me the great honor of serving as your president, I will wake up everyday in that White House trying to figure out what I can do to help you and you and you get ahead.
You see, I really believe America’s best days are still ahead of us. Don’t buy into that dark, pessimistic vision. It’s not true and it’s not who we are as Americans.
So if we stand up and we say no, we’re rejecting that. We’re not going back. We are going to move with confidence into the future – forward into the kind of potential that makes it possible for every single person to live up to his or her God-given potential, then we’re going to build the future we want together.
And we’re going to prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you all!

…Now, there are seven days left.
One week from tonight, we will begin to get returns from around the country.
And this may be the most important election of our lifetimes because so much is at stake.
I am not taking anything or anyone or any place for granted, and I hope you will work with me to win this election for you and everything we care about.
Now, I listened to some of the speakers who came before. And you know, I see these last days as both the opportunity to continue to tell you what I want to do as president because I want to give you something to vote for, not just against.
But I also feel it’s important to keep drawing the contrast with my opponent because we’ve never had someone so unqualified and unfit to be president and commander-in-chief.
And I want to say a word to people who are still making up their minds, because I want to be the president for everybody – Democrats, Republicans, and Independents – everybody.
I want to represent those who vote for me and those who vote against me because I think the next president has three big challenges.
We’ve got to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. Right?
And there couldn’t be a clearer contrast between what I have laid out – the policies that I am promoting because I think they will help us grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down, the way Donald Trump has suggested.

And then we’ve got a big challenge to keep our country safe and to lead the world with strength and in accordance with our values.
And we’ve got to make sure that we have someone in the White House with the temperament, the steadiness, the composure to deal with the challenges and crises that we will face in the world.
There are a lot of things about national security that I think a lot about because I’ve had the privilege of serving in the Senate, serving on the Armed Services Committee in the Senate, being your Secretary of State.
I was in the Situation Room when the mission to bring Osama bin Laden to justice took place.
So I have no illusions, I have no doubt that this is a challenging time.
But I believe with all my heart that our country is up to whatever challenges we face if we work together. We are stronger together. That’s exactly what I believe.
And when I think about keeping Americans safe, obviously I think about defeating terrorism.
I know what happened not far from here at the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando. I was in New York City on 9/11 as one of the two senators. I will defeat ISIS. I will protect America.
But I also want to protect Americans from the epidemic of gun violence that is stalking our country.
I cannot come to Sanford without talking about Trayvon Martin. It’s heartbreaking that this young man, all he did was go to a corner store, bought a pack of skittles, and walked back home in the rain, and his life was cut short.
I have had the great honor of getting to know his mother, Sabrina Fulton, and many of the mothers who’ve lost their children to gun violence.
And what I have been so impressed by is how they have taken this mountain of grief and decided to do everything they could to protect the children of other mothers and fathers.
And that will take all of us working together. 33,000 people a year die from guns.
And we’ve got to do a better job, my friends.
You see, I believe we have a fundamental human – even a moral – obligation to protect our children, no matter who they are and what zip code they live in.
We have a moral obligation to reduce gun violence, and that will require us to stand up against systemic racism and promote justice and equality and criminal justice reform.
Something is wrong when young people just starting their lives are dying. Something is wrong when so many parents live in fear that their child will be hurt or killed going to the movies, sitting in a first grade classroom, attending a Bible study. The list goes on.
This has nothing to do with the Second Amendment and responsible gun owners.

There is no conflict – no conflict – between that and the Second Amendment and common sense gun safety measures.
I am willing, with your help and the help of responsible gun owners, to stand up to the gun lobby and bring about changes to save lives.
And so we’re going to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top, lead our world, take on and defeat terrorism, help to keep our young people here at home safe.
And we’re also going to heal the divides.
The Bible says, “Go be a repairer of the breach.” And we have a lot of breaches right now.
I have tried to stay focused in this campaign not at the barrage of insults. My opponent can say whatever he wants about me. I don’t really care.
What I care about is your lives, especially the lives of the young people here in this audience tonight.
I care about your families. How are you going to have the tools you need to overcome the problems that you face? To help you get ahead and stay ahead.
That’s why I have plans for new jobs with rising income, infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, technology, clean renewable energy jobs.
And I want to do more to help small businesses because that’s where most of the new jobs are going to come from.
And while we grow the economy and create more jobs, we’ve got to make sure it’s fair. We should raise the national minimum wage. No one who works full-time should still be in poverty.
You see, I believe in hard work. I was raised to believe in hard work.
My dad was a small businessman. He taught me you got to be self-reliant. You’ve got to work hard.
But you know, working hard, doing everything you can to get ahead, and never making any progress has to be pretty discouraging. Right?
Two-thirds of all minimum wage workers are women, many of whom are the sole support of their children.
I have met women across this country who are literally working from 6 a.m. to midnight because they have two – two – minimum wage jobs.
So we’re going to tackle that and give more people a chance.
And we’re going to finally guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
I mean, think about it. It is 2016. This is not just a woman’s issue. If you’ve got a mother, a wife, a sister, a daughter, who is working, it’s your issue.
Why should you be discriminated against because you’re a woman?
I think we’ve got to end those days. It is time to move forward.
Now, I’ve got to tell you, everything I’ve just said, Donald Trump disagrees with. He doesn’t think we need clean, renewable energy jobs because he doesn’t think climate change is a problem.
He doesn’t think we should raise the national minimum wage and he doesn’t believe that women should be guaranteed equal pay for the work we do.
And now, whenever I talk about this, he accuses me of playing the woman card. And you know what I say. If that’s playing the woman card, then deal me in.
And you know, there’s another issue that I’ve spent a lot of time working on and that is how do we make college affordable for everybody?
I want to be a strong advocate for education, starting with pre-school education so kids get prepared to do well in school.

I also believe that we should not have taken technical education out of high schools and I want to put it back into high schools.
There are a lot of very good jobs that provide a good income and the dignity of doing a good job that don’t require a four-year college education. Right?
So let’s help more young people who are interested in those jobs – machinists, welders, tool and die makers, carpenters, computer coders, health professionals – give them a chance from high school into community college to get prepared for those jobs.
And then if you want a four-year college degree, here’s my plan. If your family makes less than $125,000 a year, you will not pay tuition at public colleges and universities.
And if you make more than that, you can go to college debt-free. Pay what you can but don’t have to go into debt. We should be making investment in our young people.
And for those of you who already have student debt, we’re going to help you refinance it, pay it down and get it off your backs.
You see, I’m very excited about the future. And every election’s about the future.
And in fact, there’s such a difference in our visions for the future.
I have a positive, optimistic, unified vision of where America’s going.
When I listen to Donald Trump’s dark and divisive vision, I sometimes don’t know what country he’s talking about. He just spends all of his time just denigrating, criticizing America.
I got to tell you, I think America already is great but we can be greater. I think America is big hearted, not small minded.
I think Americans are about lifting up, not tearing each other down.
I believe we truly are stronger together in order to set goals and achieve those goals.
When I think about all the people that Donald Trump has insulted in this campaign, literally, he’s insulted a huge majority of the American people.
I mean, think about it. He started with immigrants, moved on to Latinos, African-Americans, Muslims, people with disabilities, prisoners of war, and then women.
I mean, think about it. You know, did any of you see the debates?
Well, you know, before every debate, there was always a story about how, you know, he’s really going to attack me and he’s going to get into my head and he’s going to really mess me up. I’m sitting there thinking, “No. He’s not.”
So you know, standing there for 4.5 hours on that debate stage proved once and for all, I have the stamina to do this job.
But don’t get me wrong, that doesn’t mean I, you know, I enjoyed listening to some of the things he had to say.
I mean, earlier today, I was in Pasco County talking about one of the reasons why the choice is so stark in this election because of all the things that Donald Trump has said and done to women and girls.
Now, I was proud to be introduced by Alicia Machado, the Miss Universe Pageant winner.

Now, here’s a woman who wins the Miss Universe Pageant. I mean, you’ve got to expect she’s pretty amazing looking. Right?
But Donald insulted her appearance, calling her “Miss Piggy”. He insulted her heritage. Because she was a Latina, he called her “Miss Housekeeping”.
But as Alicia said today, she refused to let such a small person get her down.
And I was proud of her because she knows that Donald Trump doesn’t get to decide her value. And she understands that we should be lifting up young people.
We should be lifting up the confidence of young women and men. We should be building up their self-worth so that any young person in America can say they’re going after their piece of the American dream because the American dream is big enough for everybody.
Now, we know what the tape about Donald Trump said. We know that he said some terrible about what he does to women. I’m not going to repeat it. But bragging about treating women like that is not the message we want either our little or our little boys to hear.
You see, I believe with all my heart that we have so much ahead of us. There’s so much we can do together.
Do we have problems? Of course we have problems. But we’ve never not had problems in America’s history.
What mattered is whether people came together to address those problems.
So every time he started in on me or going on about what he said about other people, I just kept thinking about what Michelle Obama said at the convention. When he goes low, we go high.
But you know, we can’t do any of the things we’ve planned, any of the ideas we’ve laid out there without your help.
This is when it really matters.
We’ve got someone running for president, who’s not only bullied people and made bigoted comments about everybody, but he is the only major party nominee for president in 40 years who hasn’t released his tax returns.
Now, a few weeks ago, we got to see three pages of his tax returns and they told us a lot. They told us that Donald lost almost $1 billion in just one year, and then he used that loss to avoid paying federal income taxes for 18 years.
So he went nearly two decades without paying a dime toward our military, our veterans, our education, our health care, our highways or anything else.
I believe that most of here have paid a lot more federal income taxes than Donald Trump has paid.
And he claims he’s worth $10 billion. Well, he also said not paying taxes was “smart”.
Well, some more information just came to light yesterday and now we know what Donald Trump meant when he said he was “smart” for not paying his fair share, he meant that he used what the New York Times called – and I quote – a “legally dubious scheme” to avoid paying taxes.
Even his own high-priced lawyers warned him it likely wouldn’t fly with the IRS and he took everything. He took everything our great country has to offer. He scooped it up with both hands and then paid nothing to support us.
And then he has the nerve to call our military a disaster, to insult POWs when he hasn’t paid a penny to support the people who put on the uniform of the United States of America.

So if you know anybody who’s thinking about voting for Trump, well, first of all, stage an intervention.
And you know, if they’ve ever paid a dollar in income tax, ask them whether they think it’s so smart for somebody to lose other people’s money, claim a loss, and then not pay income taxes.
Now with the election just seven days away, we should demand again that Donald Trump immediately release his tax returns.
He has no excuse because his 2015 taxes are not even under audit.
And I think the American people deserve to know whether he paid any penalty for skirting the law and how much he’s actually worth and who he does business with.
I’m particularly interested in the Russian business deals that he has.
And of course, it would be interesting to know if he’s ever even given a penny to charity.
But you know, this is all part of a pattern for Donald Trump.
Time after time, he’s done things not because he thinks they’re right. Not even because he thinks they’re legal. But because he thinks he’ll get away with it.
He’s hired hundreds of small businesses and contractors to do work for him at his hotels and his casinos – cabinet makers, piano sellers, drapery printers, so many more. They did the work and then Donald refused to pay what he owed.
Why? Well, he knew small businesses didn’t have the resources to sue him. So he stiffed them.
He told the students at Trump University that they would get an Ivy League education. They paid $10,000, $20,000, even $70,000 for courses that turned out to be worthless. Now, they’re suing him for fraud. But he walked away with $5 million.
He put his name on a condo development down in Fort Lauderdale, and you should hear those people’s stories. They handed over their savings. A lot of retirees. Then their calls stopped getting answered. The condos were never built. Some of them never got their money back. But Donald got paid.
At the end of the day, Donald Trump is the poster boy for everything that’s wrong with our economy.
I think we deserve a president who stands up for you, not somebody who stiffs you, who cheats you and walks away with money.
And I will promise you this: I am going to wake up everyday and fight hard for you. I’m going to do whatever I can to knock down the barriers and make the economy work for everyone. And I will never ever quit on you. I will work my heart out for you.
And we’re going to find a way over, under, around, or through all the barriers that stand in the way.
I have been fighting for families and underdogs my entire life.
When I was in the Senate, I was there mostly when the Republicans were in charge. There are 400 pieces of legislation with my name on it as a sponsor or a co-sponsor.
Because I understand we got to work together.
And I want you to tell your Republican and Independent friends, I have proven I know how to work across the aisle. I will work to find the best answers to the problems we face.
But we won’t back down. We won’t be knocked off course.
We know what we have to do and it all starts with winning this election next Tuesday.
So here’s what I’m asking: Please do everything you can between now and when the polls close to make a difference.
Donald Trump’s strategy is to get women to stay home, young people to stay home, people of color to stay home. That’s more than half the population.

But it’s all part of his scorched Earth campaign and it goes against everything we stand for.
So do you know the best way to stop him? By showing up and voting and getting the biggest turnout in history.
We need more people to vote. How many of you have already voted?
Well, I’m asking you to go out and make sure you get more people to vote, to get them to vote early.
Because something is happening, my friends. 26 million people in America have already voted, more than 4 million of them right here in Florida.
So, if we can keep this up, there is no doubt if we vote, we win.
And it’s very easy. Tell your friends and your family, and your co-workers that they can vote, that they can help make history.
You can go to early vote in this county, in every county and you can do it between and the end of business next Sunday.
I hope on the way over here or on the way somewhere tomorrow you’ll go to the nearest early voting site.
Not far from here is the North Branch Library. One block away on North Palmetto Avenue.
All the early voting sites in Seminole County are open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. everyday until Nov. 6th.
And you know, Florida has a lot more early voting sites than some of the states around our country. So early voting here is convenient.
Now, if you don’t know where to go vote, go online to IWillVote.com to find the nearest early voting location.
Because at the end of the day, this election really is about your futures. It’s about who we are as a country. It’s about every issue that matters to us.
The future of our economy. Do we build it from the middle out and the ground up? Or do we go back to the failed policies of trickle down economics and give trillions of tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires?
Raising the minimum wage.
Making college affordable.
Fighting climate change. Florida’s one of the places that really needs to do everything it can to fight climate change.
Comprehensive immigration reform.
LGBT equality.
Defending Planned Parenthood.
Standing up for Puerto Rico to get a just, effective solution.
In the end, the American dream itself is at stake and it’s just so exciting to me to think about what we can do.
I want to build on the progress that President Obama has made.
So think how you’ll feel if there was something you could have done but didn’t on Nov. 9th if this doesn’t work.
Personally, I can’t imagine.
And then your minds a little further when your kids and your grandkids asked you what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll be able to say, I voted for a better, fairer, stronger America.
Let’s build that future together, and let’s prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you!

Wow! Thank you. It is great to be here…
And I want to thank all the volunteers, everyone who has helped reach out to voters.
…There are only 13 days left in this important election, and I have to tell you it is so clear how high the stakes are.
And I am going to work as hard as I can over these next 13 days reaching out to as many people as possible.
We can’t take our foot off the gas, even for a short time. Every vote counts. Just ask my friend, former Vice President Al Gore.
And Lake Worth can make the difference. Florida can make the difference.
And if people get out and vote, we will have a victory on Nov. 8th.
…You know, I hope that one of the best gifts that you can give yourselves would be sending Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate.
He’s exactly the kind of senator that Florida deserves. He’ll be an independent voice, speaking out and working on your behalf.
He’s a proven problem solver. He’s fought for comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. He has defended Planned Parenthood and a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. He’s brought Democrats and Republicans together to protect our environment and fund Everglade restoration.
That’s what we need. We need somebody who will help to break the gridlock, to stand up and help create more good jobs with rising wages, stand up to the gun lobby and advocate for common sense gun safety reforms, and help in the fight against climate change to protect the future of Florida.
He will also defend and strengthen Social Security and Medicare. Everyone who works hard during your lifetime should be able to retire with dignity and the benefits that you have earned should not be cut or privatized.
And remember this. Unlike his opponent, Patrick Murphy has not been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump and his dangerous divisive campaign.
Now, did anybody see the last debate?
You know, I stood next to Donald Trump for 4.5 hours in those three debates, proving I think once and for all I have the stamina to be president.
And no matter what he did, no matter what he said, no matter how he stalked me and lurked over me, I just kept thinking about what Michelle Obama said – when he goes low, we go high.
And boy, has he gone low. Right?

But among the many things he has said, which are deeply troubling and disturbing, he said something truly horrifying in that last debate. He said that he would not necessarily respect the results of the election. He actually refused to say that he would when asked directly.
Now, you got to understand, as I was standing there, nobody, nobody – Republican, Democrat – nobody who has ever run for president has ever said that before.
And so, I guess we shouldn’t be too surprised. This is a guy who said the Emmy’s were rigged against him when his TV show didn’t win.
But this is serious, and it’s the reason I’ve been bringing it up at all my stops here in Florida, partly because I was horrified by it, but also because – think about this – when you are sworn in as president, you take an oath. You take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.
And listening to Donald Trump’s campaign, I truly doubt he has ever read the Constitution.
Or if he did back in school, he certainly doesn’t remember it and he doesn’t understand it is the most important founding document for the longest lasting greatest democracy in the history of the world.
In America, we don’t say we’re going to keep you in suspense about whether we’ll respect the outcome of an election. We have free and fair elections and a peaceful transfer of power. That is one of the things that makes America who we are.
And we fool around with that and we criticize that at our peril.
You know, as your Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries and a lot of those countries are ones that are not democracies or they’re only pretend democracies. They actually authoritarian leaders or dictators. And yeah, you know what? They rig their elections. You know, somebody’s running and they get 99.9% of the vote.
We’ve seen this. We know what that means and some of you – either yourselves or your parents or your grandparents – came from places where that went on.
And we can never tolerate anyone running to be president of the United States who undermines and questions our fundamental democratic values.
Now, we know he has spent his entire campaign attacking one group of American after another. He’s attacked immigrants. He’s attacked African-Americans and Latinos and POWs and Muslims and people with disabilities and boy, has he attacked women.
But now, his final target is democracy itself.
And we have faced challenges to our democracy before and we’ve got to keep working until we have a more perfect union.
And our very first president understood that.
I mean, George Washington refused to become a king. You know, folks were saying, hey, this president thing is okay but maybe we should have a king. Well, we had a revolution to get out from under one king. And George Washington was wise enough to say, “No, I’m going home. We need to have the peaceful transfer of power.”
One person can’t act like they’re in charge of everything in America. That’s not who we are.
We disagree, in case you haven’t noticed. But then we come together and we roll up our sleeves and we get things done.
And I so admire George Washington for many things but for that decision, it was one of the most important decisions in our history.
Now, I’m sure Donald Trump would have called him a loser because he voluntarily gave up power so we can have elections that would choose our leaders.
But here’s the good news and there are a lot of good news. You know, sometimes when you listen to Donald Trump and the Trump world he lives in, it can get a little disturbing. Dark, dangerous and divisive.
I don’t recognize the America he describes. There are a lot of problems we’ve got and we’re going to have to address them. And I intend to do that.
But at the very moment that Donald Trump was making this unprecedented attack on our democracy, we’ve had millions and millions of people registering to vote, voting early, and volunteering.

In fact, this is really exciting to me. We’ve reached a milestone. More than 200 million Americans are registered to vote – the biggest number we’ve ever had in our history.
And maybe most exciting? More than 50 million of them are young voters!
After all, this election is more important to young people than anybody else. And to have you register and then turn out and vote is absolutely terrific!
And you know what else? Listen to this. More than 10 million people have already voted in this election. And 2 million of them right here in Florida.
So Florida’s already cast 20% of the votes that have been already in the ballot box.
Now, I’ve got to tell you, I’ve heard some really inspiring stories. I’ll just tell you one.
Stephen [sp] from St. Augustine has been fighting a rare form of leukemia and heart disease. He has been in and out of the hospital a dozen times in the last two years. But he told his family, told his friends, told the nurses and the people in the hospital how important it was that he get a chance to vote.
So I heard yesterday he ditched his oxygen tank, which I would not have recommended, he clung to his walker, he stood in line and he cast his vote for a better America.
Don’t let anybody tell you they don’t have time to vote in this election, with somebody like Stephen making that enormous effort.
And you only see numbers like this when people are motivated to stand up for what they really believe in.
And I really believe Americans are coming together at the end of this election and not just Democrats but Republicans and Independents.
And I want to thank all the Republicans and Independents who are here today, who are part of making our country better for everyone.
And you know what? This is not just about what we’re against. It’s about what we’re for.
We have a lot of things to be for. It’s about a common vision we share of a hopeful, dynamic, unified America where everyone counts and everyone has a place.
So I really believe it may be my name on the ballot but it really is about all of you.
Every issue you care about. Every concern you have about our country or the world. Just imagine that being on this ballot.
It really does come down to who we are as a country.
The future of the economy is on the ballot. I believe when the middle class thrives, America thrives, and I have said this for many years.
I believe this so strongly because I come from a middle class family. My father was a small businessman. His father was a factory worker. That’s how it’s supposed to work in America. People work hard. They provide for their families. And people keep moving forward. That’s what I want for everyone.
I want every single person here to have your chance at the American dream, and the American dream is big enough for everybody. It’s not exclusive to any one group of people.
We’re going to make the biggest investment in good new jobs since World War II – jobs in infrastructure, manufacturing, technology, small business, and clean energy.
We’re going to make America the clean energy super power. It’s either going to be China, Germany, or us. I want it to be us. And I’m going to do everything I can to make that come true.
We can create millions of new good jobs and protect our planet. And you know, here in Florida, you’re already seeing the results of climate change.
Down in Miami even on sunny days without a drop of rain, the streets are flooding because the ocean is rising.

Most of the scientists say we’re going to have more tropical storms and hurricanes and they’re going to be more intense because the oceans are warming.
People call 311 because they assume a water main has broken when it’s actually the sea rising around them.
This is a big deal for Florida and I regret to tell you that Florida is behind in dealing with this challenge.
Unfortunately, you’ve got a governor who has directed his state government never to say the words or write the words climate change.
And you know, the big insurance companies are looking at this and they’re saying, “We’re really going to have to raise rates in Florida” because the weather predictions, climate change reality is happening.
And you are the sunshine state, and what really makes me sad is that you have less solar power in Florida than New Jersey or Massachusetts. Right? They’re not exactly known as the sunshine states. There’s a lot of great things about those states.
But think about the jobs that can be created as well as contributing to what we need to do together to save our country and the world.
Now, I also believe strongly that we’ve got to make it possible for everybody to get an education that’s going to give them the skills to be competitive in the new economy.
I believe all our kids deserve universal pre-kindergarten so they can be ready to go to school. They deserve good schools with good teachers regardless of where they live.
And you especially deserve to have college affordable enough that you can go and graduate.
I worked after our primary – you know, I was very proud of the primary that Sen. Sanders and I ran because it was about ideas, not insults.
And we had disagreements but they were disagreements about what’s the best way to achieve a goal and we agreed after it was over on a plan to make public colleges and universities like Palm Beach State College tuition free for any families making less than $125,000 a year, which is the vast majority of American families. And if you’re over that, it will be debt-free so you pay what you can afford but not go into debt because we should be making investments in your education.
And no matter where you go to college or where you went, we’re going to make it easier for you to refinance and pay back your student debt.
And then there’s something else I want to add because I don’t think we talk enough about this. A four-year degree should not be the only path to a good job and a middle class life. Right?
Let’s bring back technical education in high school so that more young people get the skills that will make them employable.
Let’s invest in more high quality apprenticeships and training programs.
So when you go to the polls, support not just teachers and educators, support yourselves and your families for the kind of future you deserve to have.
And you know, I also think the economy has to be fairer. What does that mean? Well, we’ve got raise the national minimum wage because no one who works full-time should still be in poverty.
Look, I was raised to believe in hard work and I believe in it. And I don’t think there are any short-cuts. People need to work.
But when you work full-time, you shouldn’t still be in poverty worried about whether you can put food on the table for yourself and your kids.
And don’t you think it’s finally time for businesses that make profits to do more to share those profits with the employees who help to make the profits in the first place?
You know, I love the support of real billionaires. And they’ve been speaking up because you know Donald gives a bad name to billionaires.

Warren Buffett says, “Raise my taxes. It’s wrong that I’m paying a lower tax rate than my secretary pays.” That is wrong. He knows it.
Mark Cuban says every time he has sold a company, he has shared the profits with his employees, making 300 millionaires from security guards all the way up to executives.
Mike Bloomberg says he knows a con artist when he sees one.
So we could do better.
We’re going to raise taxes on the wealthy because they’ve gotten most of the gains from the economy.
And I don’t think it’s right that Donald Trump – a guy who claimed he’s worth $10 billion – should pay zero in federal income taxes for 20 years. He paid less taxes than probably everybody else here. Everyone here. Right?
And at some point, you’ve got to ask yourself what is so smart as he’s claimed to be about losing a billion dollars in a year? I don’t think that’s very smart.
And what really is kind of weird about it is he lost a billion dollars running casinos? Who loses any money running casinos has been the question I have?
So we’re going to get the tax system working for everybody.
And don’t you think it is finally time to say absolutely no tax increases on the middle class because you haven’t had the benefits that you should have had with rising wages?
So I’m adopting the same policy that President Obama had. Really, the policy that my husband started with. No one who makes $250,000 or less, you will not see your federal taxes raised. Period.
You know, I get always a little amused when I hear people talk in the way that Donald talks about slashing taxes – trillions of dollars of taxes – for the wealthy. That’s the same old trickle down economics.
Only he, of course, wants it to be huger than anybody else’s trickle down economics. Huge!
Well, the fact is it hasn’t worked. It hasn’t worked.
We created more jobs when my husband was president – 23 million new jobs – and we’ve now created 15 million new jobs under Barack Obama. That was more than was created under trickle down economics.
So I feel strongly that we can’t go backward because we need to build the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down.
Now, don’t you think it’s also time for women to get equal pay for the work we do?
And you know, this is not a woman’s issue alone. If you’ve got a mother or a wife or a daughter or a sister, you want her to have equal pay, don’t you? I mean, otherwise your family is being cheated.
And you know where else it hurts if women are not paid equally – and we’ve got some great examples of that around the country – it hurts them when they go on Social Security.
You know, Lily Ledbetter, the woman you may have heard of who worked in a factory in Alabama, and she worked her way up until she was one of the managers on the floor. She was the only woman. She worked really hard. And then it was years later, she was like in a break room somewhere and she overheard a conversation about what some of her co-managers were going to be spending money on, and she was thinking, “Well, how can they afford that?” And so she went and talked to them and they told her how much money they made, and she was paid 40% less.
So what did that mean to her? Well, it meant her husband, who also worked really hard, it meant that they were kind of cheated. And then her husband died. She’s a widow, and now her Social Security is 40% less because she didn’t put in enough to get the higher payments.
So don’t let anybody tell you this is a woman’s issue. And when Donald Trump attacks me and says I’m playing the woman’s card. You know what? If standing up for equal pay is playing the woman’s card, then deal me in.

So my friends, we have a lot to do and it’s going to be excited. I’m very optimistic about what we’re going to do together.
And I look at this election and I really do see two very different visions about our country.
And I want us to choose a path that is confident and optimistic because I really believe America’s best days are still ahead of us.
And I think part of what we have to do is just be clear about the stark difference between our campaign and my opponent’s campaign.
You know, today, he’s in Washington D.C. to open a new luxury hotel. And really, you know, while the hotel may be new, it’s the same-old story because once again – I want you to hear this because this is really important.
If you have friends who are thinking of voting for Trump, I want you to tell them that he relied on undocumented workers to make his project cheaper, and most of the products in the rooms were made overseas. And he even sued to get his taxes lowered.
But we know he’s used undocumented workers and that’s one of the things that he has run his campaign on – about deporting undocumented workers. Well, he’s used undocumented workers. He’s made his products in foreign countries. He’s used Chinese steel instead of American steel.
So you know, you can talk a good game but let’s look at the facts and the facts show he has stiffed American workers. He has stiffed American businesses.
And later today, I’m going to be with celebrity chef Jose Andres who had the courage to stand up to Trump about his divisive anti-immigrant views by refusing to put his restaurant in Trump’s hotel.
And I also – two more things. I couldn’t believe that Trump started tweeting about how the battle for Mosul was already “a total disaster” and that our country was “looking so dumb”, basically declaring defeat before the battle had even started. Honestly, this is someone who said he knows more about ISIS than our generals.
He is not just wrong. He is dangerously wrong.
And the message that is being sent to our American soldiers who were over there advising and helping this action to drive the terrorists out.
Imagine what they’re hearing from someone who claims he wants to be the next commander-in-chief.
Well, my friends, I have a different view and I want your help. Our bottom line is we need to work for the next 13 days.
And here in Florida voting could not be easier. Please, you can early vote through Sunday, Nov. 6th. Go to any early voting site in your county.
You can go between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. to cast your ballot.
…And you can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your polling place. Make sure you have a plan to vote. Make sure you bring everybody to vote.
Volunteer these last two weeks. Help us make calls and knock on doors. Go to HillaryClinton.com to sign up or take out your phones and text JOIN to 47246.
So on Jan. 20th, we’re going to have a new president. Right?
So things are going to change no matter what. The real question is what kind of change are we going to have.

And I don’t think most Americans want the dark and divisive change that Donald is offering – mass deportations to rip apart families, the repeal of gun-free school zones on day one, going back to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against everybody not just people on the Affordable Care Act exchanges but every one of us – 170 million of us who get insurance from our employers, going back to letting Wall Street write its own rules, denying the science of climate change, rolling back marriage equality, reversing a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions, the biggest tax breaks ever for those at the top, and then a broad ripping of our alliances and allowing more countries to get more nuclear weapons.
Well, that’s change all right. But that is not the change we need.
We need a country where every student can afford to go to college, where millions of people are working in good high-paying jobs, where immigrants come out of the shadows and pay taxes.
And listen to this, half of all undocumented immigrants paid federal income taxes, which means they paid more federal income taxes than Donald Trump has paid for 20 years.
And we need a country respected in the world, working with our allies to defeat terrorism and to stop the spread of nuclear weapons.
Well, my friends, change is coming and the choice is yours as to what kind of country we want to be.
We need a fairer, stronger America.
If you will work with me, if you will vote between now and the time the polls close on Nov. 8th, we will make the kind of future that we need for ourselves, our kids, and our grandkids.
And we will prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you!

…[Acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
…I especially want to thank someone who I am so excited about and I hope that Philadelphia will send Katie McGinty of behalf of Pennsylvania to the United States Senate.
I’ve known Katie for a long time. You may know too she’s a daughter of a Philadelphia police officer. One of 10 children.
Now, why is that relevant? Because you got to learn how to get along with people. If you’re one of 10, I think she’ll do a good job getting along with the other senators and getting things done for you.
She has devoted her career to protecting working families, fighting for cleaner air, fighting for cleaner water and healthier neighborhoods.
Now, let me say this about Katie because that’s the person I hope that you will get behind in this election. She will work hard for you. She will help to break through the gridlock to get results for you.
And she’s running against someone who refuses to stand up to Donald Trump.
Think about it. Pat Toomey heard Donald Trump insult grieving Gold Star family who lost their son in Iraq. He heard Donald Trump call Mexican immigrants rapists and criminals. He heard Donald Trump insult African-Americans, POWs. He heard him engage in saying terrible things about women. He saw him spreading the lie that President Obama was not born in the United States.
How much does he have to hear or to see?
If he doesn’t have the courage to stand up against Donald Trump after all of this, then how will he stand up to special interests and powerful forces that are going to be trying to have their way in Washington?
So it’s important that all of you do everything you can in these last 17 days to make the case to send Katie McGinty to Washington.
Now, as you heard from Tim, we had our third debate. We had our third debate. And some people are just poor losers when they look at those three debates.

I stood on the stage, if you add it all up, for 4.5 hours with Donald Trump, and I think I have a pretty good idea about how important it is to keep talking about the positive things we’re going to do together. It’s important to give you something to vote for, not just against.
And it’s important to lay out the policies that Tim and I are going to work on to make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, to make it possible for more young people to follow your dreams by giving you the chance to go as far as your hard work and talent will take you.
Now, in that third debate, Donald Trump said something that no other candidate running on either side has ever said. And that is he refused to say he would respect the outcome of the election.
Now, make no mistake. Make no mistake my friends. This poses a direct threat to our democracy.
I’ve lost elections. You don’t feel good the next day. But we’ve always had a peaceful transfer of power.
That’s the difference between democracy and dictatorship. That is the difference between the rule of law and the rule of strongmen.
And there is so much at stake in demonstrating unequivocally that the United States is bigger than Donald Trump.
And the best way of doing that is voting and we’ve got some really good signs about how people are feeling.
More than 200 million Americans are now registered to vote. That is the largest number in the history of our country.
And what’s especially exciting is that more than 50 million young people have registered.
This could truly be the election that young people turned out in larger numbers than ever to make their votes and voices heard.
Hundreds of thousands of more voters are registered here in Pennsylvania than were registered in 2012.
So thanks to everybody who registered and helped to get people registered.
Now, what I think is happening is that people are coming together – Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, all to reject hate and division that sets Americans against one another because we believe we can have a more hopeful, unified, positive future.
And it’s going to be really important to make sure that people that people recognize no matter what issue you care about, it is on the ballot.
It may be Tim and my names. But it really is about everything we care about. Every issue that matters to you.
And so we’re going to keep working as hard as we can until the very end. And I appreciate those who are already for me and are working so hard.
But I want to say a word to the people who aren’t because you know what? I want to be your president too and I will work for you and I will fight for you as well.
I believe we can disagree without being disagreeable. I’ve seen that happen.
And I know there are people who for a variety of reasons find themselves discouraged or frustrated or somehow feel like they’re being left out of our economy, that our politics and our government doesn’t work.

Well, I believe that we’ve got to face up to these challenges.
And part of what I want us to recognize is that we can’t just be angry. Anger is not a plan. It does not lead to the kind of action and change that we need to make to be sure that every person in our country feels that they have a piece of the American dream.
So when it comes to the economy, we are going to invest in you, in your families. We’re going to build this economy from the middle out and the bottom up because that will help everybody.
My opponent has a very different idea. And I’ll give him credit for his idea. He really believes if you cut trillions of dollars in taxes for the wealthy – millionaires and billionaires and corporations – that that does somehow trickle down.
Well, we’ve been down that road before and it does not work. It will not work. We cannot see the possibilities of having our economy grow for everyone if we’re only caring about the people on the very top.
So I have a different approach. It’s kind of similar to what both my husband and President Obama have believed because if you try to invest in opportunities for everyone that actually will produce more growth. And that is what Tim and I intend to do.
And we’re also going to be on the side of American workers because the union movement in this country helped to build our middle class.
And it is wrong to think that somehow suppressing wages, preventing people from having benefits that will make them feel secure will somehow increase GDP.
You heard – you heard Donald Trump. He stood on the debate stage in the Republican primary and said the problem in America was that wages were too high.
And this is coming from someone who has done everything he can to avoid paying taxes, has not paid anything to support our military, our veterans, Pell Grants for students, our roads, education, health care but instead claims that makes him smart.
Well, honestly, I don’t know how smart it is to lose $1 billion to run a casino. I’m still trying to get my head around that. I thought the house always won.
But you know, he won’t release his tax returns. He never intended to.
And stop and ask yourself, wow, there must be something really, really bad in his tax returns. So we won’t really know what he’s ever, if anything, given to charity or how much money he’s really worth. And we won’t know how many business deals he has with foreign governments.
And that sort of bothers me because when we have 17 intelligence agencies, military and civilian alike, all saying that the Russians are behind all these hacks for the purpose of influencing our election, you’ve got to ask yourself why would he believe the Russians instead of our own intelligence forces?

So, here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to make the biggest investments in new jobs since World War II – infrastructure jobs, advanced manufacturing, technology, innovation, research, clean energy jobs.
That one’s especially important to us because some country is going to be the clean energy super power of the 21st century. It will probably be Germany, China, or us. Let’s make it us.
It is absolutely possible for us to do this.
I am tired of all this talk that you hear from Trump and his supporters that really is always just denigrating America.
And come on, give me a break. This country has created more economic opportunity for anybody in the history of the world. We just got to get it spun up again, get it moving again, creating entrepreneurial opportunities, particularly for young people.
And I also believe strongly that our education system has to work for everybody, not just some of us.
So let’s start with universal pre-kindergarten so every kid has a chance to get ready for school.
And let’s make sure every child has a good school with good teachers no matter what zip code that child lives in.
And let’s do more to support teachers and provide them with the kind of support they need to do the most important kind of job there is.
And let’s be honest about the jobs that are going to be created in the next 20 to 30 to 40 years. We’ve got some big issues.
I don’t usually talk about this because you know, it’s complicated and it’s hard to explain in a couple of minutes. But think about what technology is doing – the wonders of technology.
Think about how many jobs and not just low-skill jobs but how many jobs could be replaced by technology, by robotics, by artificial intelligence.
So we’ve got to start thinking right now about what we’re going to do to make sure people are prepared and ready for the jobs that will be available. And then we’ve got to do everything possible to create those jobs and make them good paying jobs that support a family.
And I want to bring modern technical education back to high schools because a lot of young people deserve to have that kind of preparation. And our community colleges are going to be the real hub of this, connecting high schools, businesses, labor unions, universities all together.
And we are going to have more apprenticeship programs, union and business apprenticeship programs for welders, machinists, health technicians, computer coders, and so much more.
And I’m going to do everything I can to get the cost of college down for everybody.
Now, there’s more we can do about public colleges and universities but we’re going to try to set the curve.
After the primary, Bernie Sanders and I got together and we worked out a plan that will make it possible for any student in a family that makes less than $125,000 a year to go to public college tuition free.
And over that family income, to go debt free. So yes, you have to pay something but not to go into debt.

And we’re going to help you pay back your debt, pay it down. You should be able to pay it back as a percentage of your income so you’re never having to pay more than you can afford.
And just because you know I love plans and I love details. And it was really kind of discouraging running against somebody who had neither. You know? I kept waiting. Let’s have a discussion about how you make college affordable but honestly I never got that out of my opponent.
But here’s what I want you to do. I want you to go to HillaryClinton.com/calculator, and you can see how much you and your family can save under the plan that Tim and I are going to be promoting.
So my friends, there’s so much at stake in this election.
If you believe we should raise the national minimum wage so you don’t live in poverty if you work full-time, you need to vote.
If you think equal pay for women is long overdue to raise family income, you’ve got to get out and vote.
If you believe that we should treat women and girls with dignity and respect in America, then you’ve got to get out and vote.
If you believe that we have to stand up for our rights, we have to stand up for women’s rights, we have to stand up to defend Planned Parenthood, we have to stand up – we have to defend marriage equality. We have to defend the LGBT community.
We have to tackle systemic racism and make criminal justice reform a reality.
We have to defend voting rights.
And we have to take on the gun lobby and have common gun safety measures.
And we have to work with our allies and partners around the world to stop the spread of terrorism, to defeat ISIS, to take on the threat of nuclear weapons.
Then you’ve got to vote.
There’s no doubt in my mind that this is a crossroads election and it’s a crossroads election because there could not be two more different visions and agendas than between me and Donald Trump.
And look, it’s easy to get cynical about politics. But these matters are deeply personal to families, to our communities, our country, and the world.
So for anybody who may be reconsidering their support for my opponent, I’ll do my best in these next 17 days to reach out to you – to Democrats, Republicans, and Independents – because our country needs every single person to put your energy, your talents, and your ambition to work to build the kind of stronger and fairer country that we’re seeking.

And I hope, you know, when people look back on this election, when everything really is on the line, I hope you and everyone you know will be able to say that you voted for a better America, and that’s what I’m asking you tonight.
Please go to IWillVote.com to find out where you’re supposed to vote, where you can vote on Nov. 8th.
Go to HillaryClinton.com and sign up to volunteer.
Take out your phone and text JOIN to 47246 to get involved.
And do everything you can to reach out and talk to anyone you know – family members, friends, colleagues – who might be considering voting for Donald Trump.
You know, it’s not too late to stage an intervention. Friends don’t let friends vote for Trump.
This has been a very unusual election, and it has been one that I think that’s probably caused as much anxiety and concern as any I’ve seen.
You know, I’ve been privileged to know people who served as president, who ran for president. I had disagreements with them over policies, even principles. But I never doubted their fitness to serve.
That’s why this election imposes such a heavy responsibility on Tim and me because Donald Trump is unqualified and unfit to be president and commander-in-chief of our country.
But that judgment is not up to Tim and me. That judgment is up to all of you. Every single one of you.
And I think it’s pretty obvious that young people like all of you who I am seeing in front of us tonight, this election matters to everybody but it matters more to you because it will set the direction of this country and I believe our world for decades to come.
So if you care about climate change, you’d better vote.
If you care about immigration reform, you’d better vote.
If you care about mass incarceration, you’d better vote.
If you care about whether the people of this country have a chance to make the most out of their lives because they get the education they need and the health care they deserve and they have the barriers in front of them knocked down to pave their way, then you’d better vote because everybody who can go forward brings the rest of us along.
So think about the future we want. Think about the future we can create. And remember love trumps hate!
Thank you!

… [Acknowledgments of public officials omitted]
…We’ve got to be really focused on what we’re going to do with this extreme weather. We’re getting more of it in more places, and I’m going to make that a priority for my presidency to make sure communities are well-prepared, they’re resilient. But that we also work to try to limit the damage by taking on the challenge of climate change and changing weather patterns.
And nobody knows more about weather than our farmers and I am very committed to supporting farms of all sizes but particularly small farms.
You know, I think you said the farm you went to this morning, G.K. [Butterfield], was 200 acres. You know, that’s a lot of land but that’s not a gigantic multi-thousand acre farm.
And sometimes I think that we spend too much time and money looking after the big giant farms and not enough taking care of the smaller farms, the family-owned farms, farms that have been in people’s families for generations.
And I will do my very best working with G.K. and Eleanor and others in Congress to focus federal attention and resources on places that need it, and eastern North Carolina is a place that needs it.
There are still too many people who feel like they’ve been left out and left behind. And so we’ve got to spend time thinking about how we bring everybody along.
That is my goal as your president. I want to knock down the barriers that stand in the way of people and places getting ahead.
Now, I also on a personal note because I as in Arizona last night and had a great rally there. I don’t know – 15,000, 16,000 people. It was just extraordinary.
But I was a little anxious during my speech because the cubs were playing in the world series.
And you know, I’ve been a fan all my life. Started watching baseball with my dad, went to Wrigley Field, and you know, it’s been a long time – 118 years – to win a championship and make history. And I only wished that my late father and the great Ernie Banks – Mr. Cub – could have seen it happen.
So last night was very special on lots of fronts.
And who knows? Maybe we’ll see even more history made in a few days.
You know, the last time the Cubs won, women couldn’t vote. I think women are making up for that in this election.
So thank you. Thank you so much for being here.
Are you ready to vote?
How many folks have already voted?
That’s really impressive. Are you ready to volunteer these last few days?
Are you ready to elect Ray Cooper your governor? Have a governor who puts families first and your needs? I know he’ll do a terrific job.
Are you ready to elect Deborah Ross to the United States Senate?
She will be the independent voice that North Carolina families deserves and unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.

And then are you ready to elect our next president and commander-in-chief?
Well, you know, in fact, did any of you see those debates? Well, you know I spent 4.5 hours standing next to Donald Trump, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be the next president and commander-in-chief.
But you know, he kept saying things like, “Well, what have you done for 30 years?”
Well, we know what he’s done for 30 years starting with discriminating against African-Americans and denying them housing back in the 1970s.
I chose a different path. I have spent my career fighting for kids and families.
And I helped to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program as First Lady. That now provides health care to 8 million children a year.
And I have to tell you. I know it doesn’t make headlines. It’s not going to, you know, get a big Twitter war going. But when I travel around and shake hands like I do after my remarks and somebody says to me the Children’s Health Insurance Program saved my son’s life.
I met a woman here in North Carolina whose daughter was born deaf, and the doctor said she’s never ever going to be able to talk, she’s not ever going to be able to hear. And her mother, who is determined, began doing investigation. She found out that there were some possible treatments. But they were expensive. She didn’t know what she was going to do, and she took her daughter to the doctor and the doctor said, “You know, I just heard about this new program – the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Maybe you can qualify for that.”
Because it’s really for families that aren’t poor but don’t have much money. And that’s a lot of families, isn’t it? And families that don’t have an employer that provide health insurance – self-employed, independent contractors.
So the mom found out about this thing called the Children’s Health Insurance Program and lo and behold they did qualify. And they started the treatments for their daughter. I met that young woman. She said hello to me. She talked to me. She just graduated from college…in North Carolina.
So don’t let anybody tell you it doesn’t matter what you stand for, what you fight for, and who you’re trying to help when you make your decision about who to vote for in this election.
As a senator from New York, I worked to rebuild New York City after the 9/11 attacks and to provide health care for our brave first responders who ran toward danger, not away from it.
Were you there? God bless you!
That’s another thing. I meet people all over who were there and who worked there and I meet people who got sick because they worked there.
And as your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries, negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and LGBT rights around the world.
And everything I’ve done it’s because I’ve been listening to people.
Again, I know that’s not very exciting. I plead to that.
When you spend time listening, not talking, you know what are the poor journalists going to say? Well, there, Hillary Clinton was listening again. Right?
But I’ll tell you, it is what motivates me to hear people’s stories, to hear the tribulations, and the triumphs, to get good ideas, bring people together, find common ground, even with people we disagree with.
I disagree with people on lots of issues but I believe the only way we can get things done is to actually listen and respect each other and try to find that common ground that will enable us to get results for people.
And if you elect me next Tuesday, that is the kind of president I’ll be.
And from the first day of this campaign, I’ve been telling you what I want to do – putting forth my ideas about what I think will help you.

I truly believe that you deserve a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
And so if we’re going to make this choice, we’ve got to be clear – the positives and the negatives.
Because one way or another, come this January, America is going to have a new president, and it will be either me or Donald Trump.
And you know what else? People say all the time, well, you know I want change. Well, change will come. That is certain. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
Are we going to work together to build a stronger, fairer, better America? Or are we going to fear the future and fear each other and hunker down and be paralyzed by all of our prejudices, our discrimination that stops us from coming together?
So here’s what I want you to do in these next days as you talk with people who maybe haven’t yet voted, maybe haven’t made up their mind, I want you to ask them: Imagine it is Jan. 20, 2017 and it is Donald Trump standing in front of the Capitol taking the oath of office. Imagine what that will be like then to have him in the Oval Office, making the decisions that affect your lives and your futures.
Imagine having a president who demeans women, mocks the disabled, insults African-Americans and Latinos, who pits people against each other instead of pulling them together, someone who always puts himself first and doesn’t care who gets hurt along the way, a president with very thin skin, who lashes out at anyone who challenges him, who praises adversaries like Vladimir Putin and picks fights with our allies and even attacked the Pope.
The truth is we don’t have to imagine what that would be like because everything Donald Trump has said and done both in his career and in his campaign is a preview of what could happen.
You know, as Michelle Obama says, the presidency doesn’t change who you are, it reveals who you are.
And we’ve all seen all we need of Donald Trump.
If Donald Trump were to win this election, we would have a commander-in-chief who is completely out of his depth and whose ideas are incredibly dangerous.
Someone who wants more countries to have nuclear weapons and could easily insult a foreign leader and start a real war instead of just a Twitter war.
And yet this morning in Florida, Donald stood on a stage and said – and I quote – “I’m honored to have the greatest temperament that anyone’s ever had.”
Now, he knows we can see and hear him, right?
This is someone who at another rally yesterday actually said outloud to himself, “Stay on point, Donald. Stay on point.”
His campaign probably put that on the teleprompter – stay on point, Donald, stay on point.
You know, we have seen it over and over again. We know his true self. His instinct is to say whatever pops into his no matter how wrong he is, he can’t help himself.
So is this someone we want to put in charge of our military? Is this someone we want to treat people the way he has demonstrated his disrespect throughout his campaign?
In a country that values religious liberty and freedom, someone who would ban every Muslim in the world from ever coming to our country?
Someone who thinks the lives of black people are all crime and poverty and despair?
He has no idea – none – about the strength of the black church, the vibrancy of black-owned businesses, the excellence of historically black colleges and universities, the rise of a new generation of black activists for social justice, and the success of black leaders in every field.

Remember, remember how he denied housing to Mae Brown Wiggins. And Mae wasn’t alone. Whenever African-Americans tried to rent an apartment, their application was marked with a “C”. C for colored.
In fact, Donald, his father, Fred, and their entire company were sued by the Justice Department for discriminating against African-Americans and Latinos in the 1970s. They settled the case. But the Justice Department was forced to go after them again because they continued to discriminate against people of color.
Think about that.
If he were to win, he would be in charge of the federal housing department. If doesn’t respect all Americans, how can we trust him to serve all Americans?
And then another recent example is the way Donald Trump treated what are called the Central Park Five. These were five black and Latino kids, some as young as 14 who it turns out were wrongly convicted of a terrible crime in New York back in 1990.
Donald Trump took out full-page ads in four newspapers calling for the death penalty for these kids. Nearly three decades later, they were exonerated by DNA evidence. Also, someone else confessed to the crime. So they were finally released from prison and justice was done.
But not only did Donald Trump refuse to apologize for calling for their execution, he actually said they should still be in prison.
To him, those kids will still and always be guilty, no matter what the evidence says.
Do we want this man appointing judges?
Do we want him controlling the Justice Department?
Well, people who are voting for him, that’s what they would get.
He has spent this entire campaign offering a dog whistle to his most hateful supporters.
He retweets white supremacists and spreads racially tinged conspiracy theories.
And you better believe he’s being heard loudly and clearly.
Just a few days ago – I want you to hear this because this has never happened to a nominee of a major party. Just a few days ago, Donald Trump was endorsed by the official newspaper of the Ku Klux Klan.
They wrote his endorsement under the slogan of his campaign “Make America great again”. They said it’s about preserving white identity, and they’ve placed their faith and hope in him.
You’ve got to ask yourself: Do any of us who believe in our Constitution, who believe in the rule of law, who believe that we are stronger together, who believe that we want to keep moving positively toward the vision of freedom and equality set forth by our founders, do any of us have a place in Trump’s America?
It’s not just about communities of color. It’s about young people. It’s about any of us who don’t ever want us to go back to a time when you can officially discriminate, where people could be intimidated. That is not who America is and we’re not going to let it ever go back to that.
But it doesn’t end there. You’ve also got to ask do women and girls have a place either? Imagine our daughters – or in my case now, my granddaughter – growing up with someone who ranks women by their looks, gives them numbers, who brags about doing things to them without their consent. Just imagine what that would mean to young women’s confidence and self-worth and how that will affect our young men and boys, who we want to teach and nurture also to respect each other and respect girls and women as well.
So, this is a pretty clear choice North Carolina. I’ve said many times in this campaign that Donald Trump has showed us who he is. Now, we have to decide who we are. Right?
And across America, people are doing just that – rejecting Trump’s dark and divisive vision for one that is much more hopeful, inclusive and unifying.
We know that America is big-hearted, not small-minded.

We want to lift people up, not tear people down.
We are called – we are called, in fact, we are commanded – those of us who are Christians – to love our neighbor as ourselves, aren’t we?
We are not asked. We are not requested. We are not urged. We are commanded.
And we know how hard that is.
When I used to teach Sunday school, I often taught on that, not because it was well-known but because I think it’s so hard and challenging. Love your neighbor as yourself? Well, first you’ve got to love yourself. You’ve got to respect yourself. And then you have to love your neighbor as yourself.
I believe with all my heart that we are better than this and that’s why I want to paint a different picture because here’s what we’re going to do if we win this election.
We’re going to take on system racism with a full commitment and real follow-through.
We’re not going to accept the status quo. What happened to that church in Mississippi yesterday should not be normal. People painted “Vote Trump” on the side and then they set it on fire. Who would do that to a house of worship? In America, that can never be acceptable.
What happened in Flint, Michigan should not be normal or acceptable. Little babies, toddlers, children drinking water that was poisoning them.
And there are too many young African-Americans who are dying either in police incidents or from random gun violence. You know their names – Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Keith Scott. So many. We can’t accept that as normal either.
So we are going to get to work. I’m just telling you. If I’m fortunate enough to be your president, we’re going to roll up our sleeves and get to work because that’s when we’re at our best – solving our problems.
We’re going to dismantle the so-called school to prison pipeline and replace it with a cradle to career pipeline for every child in this country.
I want to make sure that our kids have the chance to thrive with good schools and good teachers, no matter what zip code they live in.
We will reform our criminal justice system from end to end. It is wrong. And I don’t care whether you are black or white. It is wrong that black men are far more likely to be stopped by police, charged and sentenced to longer prison…than white men for the same crime. That’s wrong, and we’re going to do something about that.
And Donald Trump whenever he’s faced with these issues says well the answer to all our problems is more law and order. He doesn’t tell you what he means by that but it’s kind of code for more fear and division.
What I think we need to do is to work together to restore trust between our police and our communities.
I think we are all safer when everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respected by the law.
And that’s not all. We are going to take common sense steps to reduce gun violence and save lives because right now, we’ve got too many people who should not have access to weapons – the mentally ill, felons, domestic abusers, terrorists.
You know, we can’t just bow down and say there’s nothing we can do commensurate with the Second Amendment.
Donald’s always trying to say, “Oh, you know, she’s going to repeal the Second Amendment.” What nonsense. Absolute nonsense.
But I believe we can respect and honor the Second Amendment and keep people safer by keeping guns out of the wrong hands.
And we’re going to make significant investments in communities that have been left out and left behind.
Congressman Butterfield and I were talking about this. There’s some good ideas in Congress to focus on communities – white, black, Latino, Native-American – wherever they might be that have been left out.
We need to get the engine of economic growth going because we believe that we should have an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. We believe that we should raise the national minimum wage because anyone who works full-time in poverty should not be mired and left behind.

And I think not only do Americans deserve a raise, which Donald doesn’t agree with and wants to eliminate the national minimum wage, I think it’s finally time for women to get equal pay for the work we do.
I don’t know about you but this is not just a woman’s issue. I’m always accused by Donald and his supporters that whenever I talk like that that I’m playing the woman’s card. Well, I’ve always said if that’s playing the woman’s card, deal me in. You got that right.
But I actually think I’m playing the family economics card because if you have a mother, a wife, a sister or a daughter, she deserves to be paid fairly for what she does in the workforce.
And we’re going to have a big investment in new jobs, infrastructure jobs, our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our airports, our water systems.
And we’re going to do more to bring advanced manufacturing to inner-cities and rural communities, put people to work doing work that has a really productive purpose.
We’re going to invest in more clean, renewable energy jobs. These are jobs that cannot be exported. They have to be done right here in eastern North Carolina.
Now, it’s fair to say okay, that sounds good. How are you going to do all that?
Okay, I’ll tell you two things.
First, I have said and you can hold me to it, I will not – will not – raise taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year.
You see, I come from the middle class. My dad never made anything near that even in those dollars back in those days.
But I know that the best way to grow our economy is from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down. That does not work for most Americans.
And so secondly, I’m going where the money is. The money has gone to the wealthiest of Americans and big corporations in the last 15 years.
And if you ask Donald Trump what is his economic policy, it is to give trillions – trillions – of dollars in tax cuts to himself, to his family, to the wealthy, to corporations.
I just think that’s a bad, bad idea.
We’re going to make the wealthy pay their fair share and we’re going to make sure Wall Street never threatens Main Street again.
And we’re going to make public colleges like East Carolina University tuition free. Tuition free for working and middle class families and debt free for everybody else.
And if you’re struggling with student debt, we have a plan to ease that burden and cut your bills and get you out from under debt faster.
And we’re going to create a $25 billion fund specifically aimed at supporting historically black colleges and universities.
But I don’t think that every young person needs to go to college. If you want to, I’m going to make it affordable for you.
But if you also want some other way of making a good living, let’s bring technical education back into high schools and connect them up with community colleges and business apprenticeships.
There is such a stark difference between every issue that matters between me and my opponent, and I’m asking folks who are still making up their minds to really search your hearts about what kind of country we are and what kind of future we want.

I just don’t believe we’re at our best when we stoke fear about each other.
Now, that does not mean we have to agree about everything. Of course not. But it does mean we have to be willing to listen and to come together to solve problems that affect us individually and as a society.
I don’t think I have all the answers. I don’t think anybody does.
When Donald Trump at his convention said he alone could fix everything in America, I thought about our founders meeting in Philadelphia. It wasn’t one person creating our country. It was many people working together.
Think about every social movement, every economic advance, every university like this one, every achievement that you’ve made in your own life. Somebody helped you. You worked with somebody.
Look at this community. Everybody working together making Greenville really grow and thrive, making this university better and better every single year. That is my experience of America.
So here’s what I hope you will do. I hope you will get everybody you know and yourselves if you haven’t voted yet to vote early.
Because the other side’s strategy is to scare people and intimidate people from going to the polls.
Now, Donald Trump’s campaign knows that if women turn out, if people of color turn out, if young people turn out, if people who share our vision of a positive, unified country turn out, there’s no way he can win because that is more than half the people in America.
And you may have noticed that President Obama was in Chapel Hill yesterday and he’s coming back to North Carolina tomorrow because he knows how hard it is to get anything done in Washington.
As he said yesterday, everything we’ve done is dependent on him being able to pass the baton to somebody who believes in the same things he does.
Well, I’ll tell you what. I’m ready to grab that baton. He’s going to have to bend down for me to be able to reach it because you know he’s a tall man. But I’ve been practicing.
I spent four years working with him. I call him my partner and my friend. And I’m ready to defend and build on his progress coming out of his eight years of presidency.
So let’s get out and vote and let’s vote for the kind of future that we want, the kind of country that we want.
Find your early voting location for the next three days. Please go take people there.
We will show once and for all love trumps hate!
Thank you all!

I am very grateful to have this chance to be in Pittsburgh so close to this election.
Now, I know the Steelers have a big game on Sunday against Baltimore. Let’s hear it for Coach Tomlin and the team.
His wonderful wife, Kiya, is here, and I’m very proud to have the support of Dan Rooney and Pat Rooney and the entire Rooney family.
Dan was an ambassador to Ireland when I was Secretary of State, and wherever he goes, he’s a great ambassador for Pittsburgh.
So I thank Dan and I thank Jim Rooney who was so helpful in putting this together and everyone from the Steeler’s family.
Now, you’ve just heard two terrific speeches, haven’t you?
I can’t tell you how excited I am to be back here in Pittsburgh with one of your own, somebody who has made it but never forgot where he came from, someone who I really admire because of the way he’s done his business. And it’s an absolute honor, Mark [Cuban], to have your support in this campaign.
And I’ll have more to say my friend, Katie McGinty, but boy I hope you’re going to send her to Washington.
I also – I want to recognize my friend and former colleague, Sen. Bob Casey, who is here. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto is here. Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald who is here…
It’s great to have all of these strong supporters out in these last four days. That’s all that’s left in what may be the most important election of our lifetimes.
So are you ready to vote, Pittsburgh?
Are you ready to volunteer these last four days to get out the vote?
Are you ready to elect Katie McGinty to the United States Senate?
I’ll tell you, I’ve known Katie. She’s a real fighter. And she will be the kind of independent voice that Pennsylvania families deserve.
And unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
And now, let me ask you, are you ready to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Wow! I’ll tell you. I think this is one of the best places for a crowd event ever.
Folks here get all fired up and energized.
…

And I have to ask you. Did any of you see any of the debates?
Well, I spent 4.5 hours standing next to Donald Trump, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be the next president…
But you know, he said so many things in those debates.
You know, when you debate in front of, you know, 60, 70, 80 million plus people, you’ve got to have a sense of preparation, readiness, calmness, composure.
And I’ll tell you some of what I heard coming from my opponent, it was really hard not to go “What did you say?!”
You know, he kept saying things like, “Well, what have you done for 30 years?”
Well, we know what he’s done for 30 years, and I mean, back in the 70s he started with discriminating against African-Americans and Latinos by refusing to rent them apartments in New York.
He has a long history of insulting people. It did not just start in the campaign. You can [inaudible…] and find what he said about all kinds of folks.
And one of the things I discovered in preparing for the debates, which I was kind of surprised by, is that he took out a full-page ad in 1987 to criticize President Reagan. So he is a equal opportunity insulter.
You know, I did choose a different path from him. I have spent my career fighting for kids and families, and I’m proud that I have.
I helped to start something called the Children’s Health Insurance Program as First Lady. It covers 8 million kids.
And I have to tell you that traveling around Pennsylvania, really, anywhere in the country, I meet people who have been affected the kind of changes that we can do that give more folks a chance to get ahead.
I’m all about making sure the American dream is big enough for everybody. And we’re going to knock down the barriers that stand in the way.
And you know, if you don’t have your health, it’s pretty hard to get ahead. Right?
And so I meet families who tell me what that meant, and it really – it makes me very grateful.
And I was a senator from New York on 9/11, and I spent my eight years in the Senate helping to rebuild New York, keep us safer at home, and to provide health care to our brave first responders – our firefighters, our police, our EMTs – who ran toward danger.
And as your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries, negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and worker’s rights and LGBT rights.
Now, I really believe that if you want to get things done that will help people, you start by listening to people, bringing them together.
Now, I know that’s not very exciting. I admit. And I do feel kind of sorry for the press covering me because what are they going to say? For the 100th time, she was listening to people.
I get that. But everything I’ve done started there. And then you bring people together and you put them around the table. They don’t all agree with each other. And then you work to find common ground. That’s what I did in the Senate and as Secretary of State.
I could have never gotten anything done if I hadn’t worked with Republicans and others who had different points of view.
And I want you to know if you elect me on Tuesday, that is the kind of president I will be – listening, working, finding common ground.
And from the very first day of this campaign, I’ve been putting forward my ideas about how to help you and your families get ahead.
And I truly believe you deserve a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
And so, you can go to my website. Tim Kaine and I wrote a book called Stronger Together.

Because I want you to know what the agenda is and I want you to hold me accountable.
When I come back to Pittsburgh, which I hope to do on a regular basis, I want people to say, “Hey, I saw where you wanted to more on infrastructure. How’s that going? How many new jobs do we have? What kinds of opportunities do we have with clean, renewable energy jobs? What about raising the national minimum wage?”
Now, one way or another, America is going to have a new president on Jan. 20th, right?
And people say all the time, well, they want change. Well, we will get change. Change is inevitable. That is certain. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
And here’s where I think the choice could not be clearer. Are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better America? Or are we going to fear each other and the future? Hunkered down against each other? I don’t think that will lead to anything positive.
And what I hope we will do in this election and these remaining four days is to think about the kind of country we want. Imagine what we can do together.
Every time I come into Pittsburgh, because I started driving through Pittsburgh decades ago because my dad was from Scranton and we drove through Pennsylvania every year and we took different routes and we went to different places. And I with my own eyes have seen the ups and the downs of this great city.
And now, when I drive in, what do I see? I see a positive, optimistic, confident city making progress, moving forward.
And I don’t think you do anything in life unless you kind of imagine what it will look like and then you get to work to do it.
That’s how Mark has built these great companies.
Right here in Pittsburgh when he was a young guy and working hard for everything he had, he got a chance to start imagining and then he got a chance to start acting and producing results. Well, that’s the way it works.
That’s the way it works with the Steelers. Right?
I mean, people imagine what the team can be like. They plan. The coaches, they work hard. The players like Mel and Franco, they practice. They plan.
You don’t just say, “Hey, just get out in the field. Do whatever you want.” That’s not the way it works, my friends.
And so what I’m hoping is that we will imagine two different Americas.
Just for the sake of this exercise, imagine it’s Donald Trump standing in front of the Capitol.
And we already know a lot about him – someone who demeans women, mocks people with disabilities, insults African-Americans and Latinos, and demonizes immigrants and Muslims, and pits people against each other instead of pulling us together.
And think about what it would mean to entrust the nuclear codes to someone with a very thin skin who lashes out at anyone who challenges him.
Imagine how easily it could be that Donald Trump would feel insulted and start a real war, not just a Twitter war at 3 a.m.
Imagine what it would mean for our economy to have someone who built his career exploiting workers, stiffing small businesses.
Now, you heard earlier from Andrew Tesoro. He designed a building for Donald Trump. Trump told him he loved it. It was one of his golf courses. And then Trump would not pay the bill.
Now, Andrew didn’t have the resources to sue the Trump Organization. So Trump just walked away from what was owed.
This is someone who personally signed, not some executive, he personally signed a contract with a union-busting firm to keep workers at one of his hotels from being able to organize and bargain collectively.
And just yesterday, Donald Trump was told he was breaking the law by not negotiating with his hotel workers in Las Vegas.

And we know and the steel workers sure know he chose to build two of his buildings with Chinese steel and aluminum instead of supporting America’s steel industry and American steel workers.
Everywhere he goes, he leaves people behind.
You know, one of my goals as president is to encourage more companies to do what Mark did with profit-sharing.
If any of you were with us when Mark endorsed me, Tim Kaine and I were here in Pittsburgh, and he talked about how he had shared the profits of his company, including the profits he gained when he sold his companies. I think you told me, Mark, you made 300 millionaires at your first company.
Look, we’ve got to have a strong private sector. We need business to be creating more jobs.
I really like the kind of jobs and business that Mark does because what he does is to worry about and take care of the people who help make him successful in the first place.
Now, imagine having a president who owes hundreds of millions of dollars to foreign banks and other foreign entities that he doesn’t tell us about.
Ask yourself – so if he’s sitting across the table negotiating with people from those countries, is he going to put his own financial interests ahead of America’s interests?
I can tell you this. When I’m sitting across the table from the Russians or anyone else, I know who I’m representing – the American people and our interests.
Now, my friends, we’ve got some good news this morning. Our economy created 161,000 jobs last month. That is 73 straight months of job growth.
And I believe that our economy is poised to really take off and thrive.
But we need to make sure the economy is working for everyone, not just those at the top. And that is my pledge.
I believe in growth from the middle out and the bottom up. When the middle class thrives, America thrives.
Donald Trump believes something different. He wants an economy that works for him. That’s why he wants to give the biggest tax breaks in history to the super wealthy and big corporations. His own family would get $4 billion tax break.
Now, figure that out. We know he hasn’t paid taxes. Right?
If it turns out that he’s as rich as he claims, it would be trickle down economics on steroids. The wealthy will be paying lower tax rates than ever.
His plan – and this is what I want you to hear. So he’s taking care of himself. He’s taking care of his family. He’s taking care of the super wealthy and corporations.
His plan would actually raise taxes on 26 million low-income and middle class people.
He would hit especially hard 51% of single parents would see their taxes go up.
That means that 316,000 working families in Pennsylvania would pay more under Donald’s plan.
Honestly, I don’t know how he lives with himself. Doesn’t he see – doesn’t he see what we see? The millions of moms and dads struggling to make ends meet, balance the demands of work and family, or does he just not care?
Remember, this is a man who said pregnancy is an inconvenience for an employer.
He has said – and I quote – “putting a wife to work is a very dangerous thing”.
Well, I see things differently. When I say we need to make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, I mean everyone.
Families are facing a lot of pressures. In many families, women are contributing to the income of their families or they are the sole – the sole – income in the family.

More people than ever are working gigs on the side just to make extra money or to make ends meet.
And for working families, the cost of everything is going up, from child care to prescription drugs to college education.
And think we all know somebody who’s working two minimum wage jobs and trying to raise their families at the same time.
It’s hard being good workers and good parents.
And we know young people who want to start a small business, the way Mark did it when he got going, and maybe they want to buy a first home or they just got married and they’re trying to get ahead in life and student debt is holding them back.
And I want us to know that I will do everything that I can to help ease the cost of middle class and working and poor families so that more people can do better.
And right now, so many of the people, so many of the people who are doing the toughest, most important jobs in our country are getting paid the least and a lot of them are women and people are color. Right?
Child care workers, trying to take care of our kids. Nurses, who work the night shift and spend more time with their patients than the doctors do. The home health aides who keep our seniors independent and healthy.
There are so many jobs of value to our society where the paychecks don’t reflect how important they are.
So I will do everything I can to get incomes rising for hardworking people, whether you work in steel, whether you work in a factory, whether you’re a machinist, a nurse, a teacher, a firefighter, a police officer, whatever you are, you deserve to be a part of a growing thriving middle class economy.
And so that’s why, that’s why we’re going to raise the national minimum wage and we’re going to join every other advanced economy and make sure we’ve got paid family and medical leave so you can take care of them…
And here it is 2016. Don’t you think it’s finally time to guarantee equal pay for women?
Well, I’ve got to tell you, this is not a woman’s issue. It’s a family issue.
If you have a mother, a wife, a daughter, a sister, you want her to be paid equally because that goes to your family’s bottom line.
Now, I’ve gotten sort of used to the fact that when I talk about equal pay or paid family leave or affordable child care, Donald Trump and his supporters say that I’m playing the woman card. Well, I’ll tell you what. If fighting for those kids and family issues is playing the woman’s card, you know what I say, deal me in.
We are going to invest in our people, especially our young people. We don’t have anybody to waste or leave behind. We can’t leave any talent on the sidelines.
And we’ve got to make sure we fight against discrimination. We’ve got to work in communities where factories have closed and nothing has come in to replace it like so many places in central and western PA.
And we’re going to make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since World War II.
There’s a lot of good work to be done in this country and that work will put people in jobs here in America that cannot be exported. They’ve got to be done right here.
So my friends, we’re going to make our economy stronger for decades. We’re going to make America the clean energy super power. We’re going to produce enough renewable energy to power every home.
We’re going to make it easier for small businesses and entrepreneurs to get the credit they need to grow.
And we’re going to make it possible again to say and believe it that in America if you can dream it, you can build it.
And part of that dream is making sure people get the education and the skills they need.
So here’s what I want to do. Starting in pre-school, I want to better prepare every kid to do well in real school. Right?

I want every kid to have good schools and good teachers in every zip code in America, not just some.
I want us to bring back technical education to high school. And once again, lift up those good-paying necessary jobs that don’t require a four-year college degree.
I want us to do more with our community colleges and more apprenticeship programs by unions and businesses to help prepare people.
And I am tired of meeting young people who can’t either start or finish college because they can’t afford it.
We’re going to make public colleges and universities tuition free if you make less than $125,000 a year.
And for people who are struggling with student debt, we’re going to help you refinance it, get the lower interest rates you deserve to have, help you pay it back and get up from under it.
Now, you know, I have a lot of ideas. I could keep you here until the game starts on Sunday.
You know I like to make lists and I especially like crossing things off.
Somebody told me that’s kind of a woman thing. We make lists all the time.
I make lists of my lists.
But I have a list about what we’re going to do, and it’s because it all comes down to this: I love our country and I believe in the American people. And I know there’s nothing we can’t achieve if we work together.
So as you head to the polls, as you talk to your friends and neighbors who might still be deciding who to vote for, please ask them to search their heart about what kind of country we want for our kids and our grandkids.
It is not as important that they think about voting for me as it is that they think about voting for themselves.
Every issue we care about is on the ballot on Tuesday, and I know that if we have a big win on Tuesday, we will have a big win behind our backs going into government in January.
So tell everybody please to vote and you can make the difference going to the polls on Tuesday, Nov. 8th.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com to confirm your voting location or to find out how to send in an absentee ballot.
We are on track right now to having the biggest turnout in American history.
People in states where they have early voting have already set a record. We have 31 million people who’ve already voted.
And if you know anybody here in Pittsburgh or in western PA who’s thinking about voting for Trump, please stage an intervention before it’s too late.
I mean, really, just sit down with them and ask them what they care about.
And if they say they’re just frustrated or angry, say you understand but anger is not a plan. We’ve got work to do. We’re going to roll up our sleeves and we’re going to do it together.
And if you can give us any time, if you can give us any time to volunteer, go to HillaryClinton.com to sign up or text JOIN at 47246.
Because believe me, I don’t want any of us – not me and not you – to wake up on Wednesday and think if we’d only done a little bit more, things would have turned out differently.
Sometimes the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in time.
This is one of those make or break moments for the United States. It is in your hands.
And when your kids and your grandkids ask what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll be able to say I voted for a better, stronger, fairer America where we don’t build walls, we build bridges, and where we build the future that we want, and where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

…It’s great to be here! And I am incredibly honored and excited to be sharing a platform with two extraordinary people – someone who I hope will be your next senator. Catherine [Cortez Masto] needs your help. She needs your votes. But she’s already shown what she will do. She will fight for you when she gets to the United States Senate.
I want to thank Tom Perez, who has been working so hard to improve conditions for workers across America. I’m delighted he could be here with us today.
I want to thank my longtime friend, Rep. Dina Titus, who is also with us.
I also want to recognize our entire crew here – people who are going to go out and do canvassing.
…[Acknowledgements of dignitaries omitted]
Before I get into my remarks about what’s at stake in this election and thanking you for what you’re doing to bring out the vote, I want say just a few words – I want to say a few words about the two police officers who were killed in the line of duty in Iowa.
This is horrifying, heart-breaking. It is totally unacceptable.
I have spoken with the mayors of the two cities where it happened – Des Moines and Urbandale. I also had the chance to talk to the chief of police in Urbandale.
I certainly expressed our condolences and told them that my thoughts and prayers are with the families of the fallen officers and with their fellow officers.
You know, as president, I will bring the full weight of the law down on anyone who kills a police officer and see to it that they are brought to justice.
I also believe that everyone is safer when the police respect the people they protect and when the people respect the police who serve them. And we have got to get back to showing respect and support for each other.
And we also must do much more. I’ve been speaking with police chiefs and mayors and law enforcement officers in America, and I asked them if there’s one thing – one thing – that you need, what is it? And they said, “We need help to deal with people who have mental health problems.”
I hear it across America and we’re going to do something about both mental health and addiction when I am your president.
Now, those are just some of the reasons why with just six days left, this may be the most important election in our lifetimes.
How many of you have already voted?
I thank you. I thank you for that. And I thank you for being here, to volunteer, to get out as many votes as possible in early voting.
Nevada has a big role to play in choosing our next president and commander-in-chief.
I’ve spent 30 years of my life fighting for children and families. It is the cause of my life.
I helped to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program when I was First Lady.
I helped New York recover after the horrible attacks of 9/11 and got health care for our brave first responders.
I fought to bring jobs to parts of New York that were left behind.
As your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries. I negotiated cease-fires. I reduced the threat of nuclear weapons.

And I fought for American businesses and stood up for human rights, women’s rights, and LGBT rights around the world.
And I have to say that everything I’ve ever been able to do has been because I listen to people and that I’ve tried to bring them together to find common ground even with people who disagree with me on a lot of issues.
You don’t provide health care for kids by working with Democrats and Republicans if you say, “My way or the highway.” You say, “Here’s our problem. What are we going to do? How are we going to work together?”
I really believe that’s the only way we can get things done, whether you’re in a union, in a business, whether you’re working here in Nevada or anywhere else across America.
And if you elect me next Tuesday, I will be a president who seeks to find common ground while standing ground on those issues that are really important to the American people.
And so from the first day of this campaign, I have been putting forth ideas about how to help you and your families to get ahead and stay ahead.
I want to take down all the barriers that are blocking you from fulfilling your own potential, getting your own piece of the American dream.
And I truly believe you deserve a candidate that you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
So I have tried to run a campaign of ideas, a campaign based on issues, a campaign focused on you and your families.
That’s why I think this choice could not be bigger and more different than between me and my opponent.
Because here’s what’s going to happen, my friends, on Jan. 20th either I or Donald Trump will be sworn in as the next president of the United States.
Now, I know that those of you in this room don’t want him to become president, but let’s face the facts. A lot of Americans are voting for him. Right? A lot of people are still considering who to vote for.
I think people who are considering voting for him say to themselves, “You know, I don’t like everything he says, and I don’t like a lot of things he’s done in his life but maybe he’ll become different when he becomes president.”
And then I think some people are saying, “Well, maybe I’ll just sit this one out. You know, I can’t really make up my mind. I don’t know who’s really going to help me and my family.”
And I think those of you who are out there on the phones for me, canvassing for me, talking to your friends and your co-workers, you know what an important choice this is, and you have six days to convince everybody you can talk to to get out and vote.
Now, here’s something I hope you will try with the people you’re talking to. I’m asking Americans to do this too.
Just take some time and think, imagine that on Jan. 20, 2017, it is Donald Trump standing in front of our Capitol and taking the oath of office. Now, remember because on Jan. 20th, we are going to have a new president and things are going change, that’s for sure. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
Are we going to build a fairer, stronger, better America? Or are we going to fear the future and each other?
Imagine with me what it would be like to have Donald Trump sitting in the Oval Office come next January – someone who demeans women, mocks the disabled, insults Latinos and African-Americans, what would it be like to have that person in the most powerful office in the world?
What would it be like to have a president who pits people against each other? Who doesn’t try to pull America together? What would your life be like if he were in the White House?
And the truth is, the truth is we really don’t have to guess. We just have to look at everything he has said and done in his career and in this campaign.

It’s a good preview of what would likely happen.
You know, the great Maya Angelou said, “When someone shows you who he is, believe him the first time.” Right?
If you add up all of the people and all the groups of people that he has insulted and demeaned, it makes up way more than half of America.
Like if you’re an immigrant or your parents or grandparents like my grandfather was an immigrant, you know how you will be treated and what you will be thought of.
We’d have a president who has shown very clearly how he feels about immigrants from the very day of his campaign. He has promised to round up millions of immigrants and kick them out, even if that means tearing apart families and hurting our economy.
If you’re Latino, you know what life would be like because we’d have a president who doesn’t see you as American at all.
He went after a distinguished federal judge born in Indiana, who said – Donald said he couldn’t be trusted to do his job because he was “a Mexican”.
That judge is as American as Donald Trump. Now, his parents might have been born in Mexico but what in the world does that have anything to do with?
If you are African-American, you know what life would be like. You’d have a president who thinks the lives of black people are all crime and poverty and despair.
He has no idea of the strength of the black church or the vibrancy of black-owned businesses or the excellence of historically black colleges and universities and the success of black American leaders in every profession and every walk of life.
He doesn’t have a clue.
And if you’re Muslim, you know what life would be like. We’d have a president who views people of your faith with deep suspicion and who wants to ban every Muslim in the world from ever coming to the United States and wants to undo a core tenet of our Constitution. In this country, we defend religious freedom that brought many people to our shores.
Now, we also have seen him insult nearly everybody else too.
And the thing that is so shocking to me is no matter who you are, what your background is, if you don’t fit into a very narrow category of people that he can relate to, then somehow you don’t have a part in Trump’s America. That really bothers me.
Now, if you’re not Mexican-American or African-American, Latino, or Muslim or an immigrant, you might say to yourself, “Hey, maybe this doesn’t have anything to do with me.” But it does.
Because you’re an American and in America we don’t like other people being treated unfairly. We don’t like other people being judged superficially.
And you can know all you need to know about Donald Trump by just looking at how he treats people.
If you’re a proud union member, you know what your life would be like?
This is a man who [inaudible]…tried again and again to block a union at his hotel right here in Las Vegas – a man who says wages are too high and wants to get rid – get rid – of the national minimum wage, who has no idea how much hard-working American families need a raise.
And if you’re a small business, you also know what kind of president he will be because he’s made his fortune off the backs of people just like you. He refuses to pay contractors and workers. He often offers them pennies on the dollar for work they’ve already done.
And he says, “If you don’t like it, take me to court.” There are people who had to declare bankruptcy, lay off their workers, close their shops forever because they did work for him and he wouldn’t pay them.

This should be disqualifying for the job of running the American economy.
And if you’re a member of our armed forces, you know too because we would have a commander-in-chief who is not only completely out of his depth but whose ideas are incredibly dangerous.
He actually says more countries should have nuclear weapons, and he actually talks about using them if he were president.
A few days ago in Ohio, a man named Bruce Blair introduced me at a rally. As a young Air Force officer, Bruce Blair’s job was to sit in an underground bunker in Montana to be ready to launch nuclear weapons if the president ever gave the order.
So when he hears Donald Trump talk so casually about using nuclear weapons, it chills him to the bone. He knows our commander-in-chief needs to be steady, not reckless, rational, not hot-headed. And that’s why he and dozens of former launch officers like him have come out in strong support of my campaign, and I am grateful for that.
But it doesn’t stop there because Donald Trump calls our military a disaster. He says he knows more than the generals. He’s insulted prisoners of war. He says he likes people who don’t get captured.
And he attacked a Gold Star family whose son was an Army captain who died saving his men from a suicide attack.
And just think – just think about what life would be like for women and girls.
Our girls would grow up with a president who proudly ranks women by their looks, who brags about doing things to them without their consent. Just imagine what that might do to young girls and women’s confidence and self-worth.
And imagine how it will affect our boys to grow up with a president who talks and acts like that.
And on top of everything else, he refuses to say he will even accept the results of the election.
You know, after going on the insult attack against so many people, I guess his final target is democracy itself.
Now, I want everyone to know that I respect the choice you make.
You know, we were on the debate stage right here in Las Vegas for the last debate, and we were asked if we would respect the outcome of the election. I will. He refused to say he would.
That has never happened in America history before.
Donald Trump has shown us the kind of person he is and the kind of president he would be.
How he treats people he doesn’t like, how he perceives large groups of Americans, how he’s conducted his business with so little regard for workers and contractors.
He’s used every trick in the book to get out of paying taxes – someone who says he’s worth billions but contributes zero – zero – to our military, zero to our vets and zero to Pell Grants, zero to highways, zero to everything.
And we know how he thinks and acts towards women.
So as you think about this decision, as you talk with people to help convince them to come out and vote, remind them what’s at stake in this choice – everything. Everything!
And you know, nothing will change if he’s elected because we know who he is. As Michelle Obama says, “The presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.”

Right now, right now, people across the country are coming together to vote for a different kind of future. I’m very encouraged because they are rejecting his dark and divisive vision for one that is hopeful and inclusive.
We know that America is big-hearted, not small-minded. Right?
Here in this home of the UA, we know that we want to lift people, not tear each other down. We know we are stronger together.
So I want you to tell everybody, here’s what we’re going to do.
If they join us, if you have a hard time paying for college, I’ve got a real plan to help you. We’re going to make public colleges and universities tuition free for millions of families, and we’re going to help you pay back your debt so that you can get up from under the burden.
And if you care about climate change, which he says is a hoax, I have a plan to increase renewable energy, create millions of jobs, help communities prepare for the effects of extreme weather.
And if you care about immigration reform, you know what he thinks. I am going to be introducing comprehensive immigration reform within the first 100 days.
And if you care about defeating the terrorists and reducing the number of nuclear weapons in the world and keeping our country safe, I know what we have to do. I am ready to take on the threats that we face at home and abroad.
On the day that we brought Osama bin Laden to justice, I was in the Situation Room monitoring what our brave men were doing to make it clear that we don’t let anybody attack us. It may take a while but we will keep going after them. Donald Trump was hosting Celebrity Apprentice.
So you think about what we have to do? I will do everything in my power to keep us safe. And if you care about LGBT rights, he wants to undo marriage equality. We believe that people should be respected and have dignity and have the right to marry.
And so, we’re going to keep working to protect the rights of women, to make sure that Planned Parenthood is not defunded.
And we’re going to try to save lives in America by working with responsible gun owners and the vast majority of Americans to take steps to keep guns out of the hands of mentally ill people, of domestic abusers, of felons. So let’s protect lives. Right?
So here’s what we’ve got to do. If you care about workers, you know what he thinks about unions. I will defend your rights. I believe that when unions are strong, America is strong.
So think about any issue you care about, it is on the ballot. It may be my name and his name but it’s on the ballot. So we know what we have to do.
You’ve got to vote and you’ve got to get everybody to vote. We have 200 million Americans registered to vote. That’s a record. Including 50 million young people – more than ever.
And more 31 million people have already voted early, and that includes a half a million people right here in Nevada.
And when I leave here, I’ll be going to Arizona because we are going to fight hard in Arizona.
And you know, I understand since 1948 they’ve only voted for a Democrat for president once and that was for my husband in 1996. So Bill and I love Arizona, and it’s close and competitive, and it’s going to be a great honor to campaign in these last six days across this country because this, my friends, is not a normal election. Right?
And millions of people – Democrats, Republicans and Independents – are standing up and saying we believe in an America that is great because it is good, an America where women are respected, where immigrants are welcomed, where veterans are honored, where parents are supported, where workers are paid fairly, where marriage is a right, where discrimination is wrong, where everyone counts and everyone has a place.
I will do my best to bring people together, not pull them apart.
So please, let’s get out. Let’s work these last six days. Let’s make sure that we win next Tuesday and we prove love trumps hate!
Thank you!

…I’ll tell you, I am so glad to be back in Michigan.
And that introduction, I’m just still vibrating from it.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials and dignitaries omitted]
You know, there’s something special about this place and some of you may have recognized the song that was playing when I came in – an amazing anthem sung by the talented Andra Day called Rise Up.
And that is what Detroit is doing. You are rising up!
And that is exactly what we’re going to do in America. We are going to rise up and make sure the American dream is big enough for everyone.
I’m looking forward to working with the great team you have here in Detroit and in Michigan.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials and dignitaries omitted]
…And I was delighted that my friend and my supporter Mark Cuban could be here because he’s not only a real billionaire, he’s actually shared his profits with his employees.
Now, are you ready to vote on Tuesday? Are you ready to volunteer to get everybody out to vote? Are you ready to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Did any of you see the three debates that we had?
Well, I spent 4.5 hours standing next to Donald Trump, proving once and for all I have the stamina to be the next president.
He kept saying a lot of unusual things. Didn’t he?
And you know, there’s a certain preparation you do to be ready for those debates, and of course I did because I think you should prepare to be president of the United States.
And I did practice my composure.
People said to me, “Well, how did you do that? The things he was saying and in that second debate when he was following you around and lurching over you?” I said, “Well, I did practice, and I had my friends and my family saying terrible things to me. So I was ready.”
But he would say, “Well, what have you done for 30 years?”
And you know, I don’t want to brag. I don’t want to brag.

But I do think it matters what you’ve done and especially what you’ve done that maybe improved somebody else’s life. Right?
And one of the great joys of this campaign has been traveling around our country meeting people who’ve been affected by what we’ve been doing.
For example, as First Lady, I helped create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which covers 8 million kids.
And these are families that, you know, they’re not poor families. They’re working people. But they don’t make enough money and they don’t work for somebody who provides insurance. And so very often their kids were being affected by not getting the health care they should have had.
I met a woman whose baby daughter when she was born was diagnosed as totally deaf. And the doctors said, you know, “We’re sorry. There’s really nothing we can do for her.”
But this mother, like many mothers I know, did not take that for an answer. Right? She got on the Internet. She began to research. And she found that there were treatments that she could maybe provide to her little daughter but they were expensive and she and her husband didn’t have that kind of money and they didn’t have insurance.
She was at her doctor’s office and just so distraught, and the doctor said, “Well, there’s this new thing called the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Maybe you should look into it.”
Turned out, she was eligible. She signed up. She started giving her daughter the best health care that every child in this country should be able to have, by the way.
And when I was in North Carolina, I heard about her and I got to meet her. But more than that, I met her daughter who talked to me and who just graduated from college because she got the health care and she got the treatment that she deserved to have.
I’ll tell you what. That is how I judge my last 30 years. Have I done something to help somebody else?
I am well aware of the blessings that I have had, and I want to be sure that all of us figure out a way to pay it forward, make it possible for more families, more kids to have the chance to live up to their own God-given potential.
And I was a senator in New York on 9/11 so I know what can happen. The evil and the hatred of terrorism, I saw it, and I spent my time helping to rebuild New York City and helping to get health care for the brave first responders who ran toward danger, not away from it – our police, our firefighters, our EMTs.
And I’ll tell you who else we got covered. We got construction workers who ran with their supplies and their tools and I see one right out there who knows exactly what I’m talking about.
All across the city, people were leaving their job sites and rushing toward danger.
That was America at its best and don’t ever forget what we are capable of being, who we are. We are not afraid. We are brave, courageous people who will do our best if given the chance.
And as your Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries, negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and workers’ rights and LGBT rights.
I’m telling you this because I want you to know that I will do everything I can if I am honored to be your president, I will get up everyday in that White House and I will go to work for you and your families to make [inaudible]…for you to get the chances and the opportunities you deserve to have.
I want you to have a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
That’s why Tim Kaine and I have run a campaign based on ideas and issues, not insults.

Because if you really take a look at what’s at stake in this election, it is a choice between two very different visions for America.
I got to say when I hear my opponent talk about America, I don’t recognize the country he’s talking about. It is so dark, so divisive, so hateful.
That is not the America that I believe in.
I believe that we should have a confident, optimistic, inclusive vision of where we’re going and how we’re going to get there.
I love our country and I believe in the American people and I think there’s nothing we can’t achieve if we work together and we set some goals and we go after them.
You see, we believe in an America that is big-hearted, not small-minded. We believe in an America that is already great but can be greater if we do our part. And we believe America is great because America is good. Never forget that.
If we lift each other up and not tear each other down, we can go even further.
And I believe it with all my heart. That’s why the slogan of my campaign sums it up that we are stronger together.
And so come next Jan. 20th, America’s going to have a new president.
Now, I know – I know that a lot of people say that they want change. Well, let me tell you this. Change is inevitable. There will be change. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
Are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better country? Or are we going to fear the future and each other?
I sure hope not. That is not the America that I believe we are.
And so here’s what I want to ask you to do. I want you to talk to your friends and your family and your neighbors.
Michigan is one of these states that doesn’t have early voting. I’ve been all over the country going to states that already voting. In fact, I know about 31 to 32, 33 million people have already voted in those states.
But Michigan votes on Tuesday.
And I imagine there are some of you who know people who say they’re going to vote for Donald Trump. Right?
I know. I know. I understand that.
I mean, I would hope you’d try to stage an intervention before it’s too late.
But maybe you could ask them with you to imagine – imagine Jan. 20, 2017. And imagine that my opponent is taking the oath of office in front of the Capitol. Imagine having a president who demeans women and mocks the disabled, who insults African-Americans and Latinos and Muslims, who personally engages in busting unions and preventing people from having the right to bargain collectively.
Now, the truth is we really don’t have to imagine what that would be like because everything he has said and done both in his career and in this campaign tells you what could happen.
You know, Michelle Obama who said so many wise and wonderful things, she said the presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.

And I think we’ve seen who Donald Trump is.
Maya Angelou – another great American. Maya Angelou said when someone shows you who he is, believe him the first time.
And if my opponent were to win, we would have a president who has ever been in it for himself.
Just last year, he said again, it wouldn’t have mattered if we rescued the auto industry or let it go bankrupt.
What is he talking about?
I’m proud that President Obama saved the auto industry.
And I’m even prouder that because of the hard work of people in Detroit and across Michigan and the Midwest, the U.S. auto industry just had its best year ever.
If Donald wins the election, we’d have a president who wants to ban every Muslim from the world from coming to visit the United States.
We are a country founded on religious freedom. That runs contrary to our Constitution.
We would have a president who has said repeatedly that he thinks the lives of black people are all about crime and poverty and despair.
He has no idea about the strength of the black church and the vibrancy of black-owned businesses and the excellence of historically black colleges and universities.
He seems to know nothing about the rise of a new generation of black activists and the success of black leaders in every field.
I think he needs a visit from Reverend Wendell Anthony, don’t you?
Yesterday in North Carolina, I was honored to stand with a woman named Mae Brown Wiggins. Decades ago, she was a hardworking nurse in New York City. She was looking for an apartment that she could afford to rent, but Donald Trump and his father, Fred, turned her away.
You see, whenever African-Americans tried to rent Trump apartments, their applications was marked with a “C”. C for colored.
And that didn’t sit very well with Mae, so she went to the authorities and eventually the Department of Justice sued the Trumps for housing discrimination.
And although they settled, they wouldn’t change so the government had to take them back to court.
That’s a pattern. This is what happens time and time again with my opponent.
If he were to win, he would be in charge of the Federal Housing Department.
If he doesn’t respect all Americans now, how can we trust him to serve all Americans in the future?
He has such a casual disregard of our Constitution. He doesn’t seem to understand that the rule of law that we really are a nation of laws, not men.
Here’s the latest example.
There was a terrible crime back in 1990 in New York City. It was called the Central Park Five. Maybe some of you have heard of it.
There were five black and Latino kids – some as young as 14. They were wrongfully convicted, and they were in prison where they spent years.
Donald Trump took out full-page ads calling for the death penalty for the kids.
Even after they were exonerated by DNA evidence and someone else confessed to that terrible crime, Trump actually said they should still be in prison.
It doesn’t matter if you’re innocent if he decides that you should be in prison or you should be locked up.

No wonder he admires Vladimir Putin because that’s exactly what Putin does to his people.
So we can’t trust him with our Constitution. We can’t trust him to obey the rule of law.
He has shown us who he is.
Now, we have to decide who we are.
So let me paint you a different picture. Here’s what we’re going to do together if we win this election on Tuesday night.
We have three big challenges.
Number one, we got to get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top.
Number two, we’ve got to keep our country safe and we have to work with our allies to lead the world with strength and intelligence toward peace and prosperity.
And number three, we’ve got to bring our country together. We have got to overcome these divides. We have to heal our nation.
And I hope that you will help me meet all three of those challenges.
I have said repeatedly that we’re going to take on discrimination and bigotry because anytime we hold somebody back, it could lead to holding other people back.
We can’t accept as normal what we’re seeing across our country because of his campaign.
A church in Mississippi was burned this week. Someone painted Vote Trump on the side and then set it on fire.
We can’t let that happen.
What happened in Flint, Michigan should not be normal or acceptable. Our kids should be guaranteed clean air and clean water. Those are basics.
And we’ve got to do everything we can to make sure that we take care of our children.
And it’s important for us to recognize that when I talk about getting the economy to work for everybody, that means I want the biggest jobs program since World War II – infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, clean renewable energy technology.
Some people say we can’t do that. Well, I’m telling you, they’re wrong. They’re wrong.
We have the best workers, the most productive workers. We’re going to give them more to work on, more products to produce.
And we’re going to do more for small business because small business is the backbone of so many communities.
And I want everybody to have the chance to succeed in America, and that means we’re going to dismantle the so-called school to prison pipeline and replace it with a cradle to college pipeline.
And we’re going to make sure that every child has a chance to go to a good school with good teachers no matter what zip code that child lives in.
And I want to start with our youngest kids with pre-kindergarten programs. And then I want to be a good partner with our teachers.
We’ve got to have high expectations and get results in helping our children.
And I want to be sure that we put technical education back into high school because there are good jobs out there waiting for young people with the skills to do them.
It will be important that we create an environment in which our police and our communities can work together and trust each other.
I believe we are all safer when everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respected by the law, and that’s what we’re going to work toward.
We’re also going to take common sense steps to reduce gun violence and save lives.

This has nothing to do with the scare tactics coming from my opponent.
Have you seen he’s starting to wear a camo hat now? Really.
We are going to work with responsible gun owners who understand that we’ve got to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them in the first place.
And while create more safe communities, we want to invest in those communities.
I want to continue the good work that our past two Democratic presidents have done – one named Clinton, one named Obama.
And I want to be a really strong partner. I’ll compete a little with them. But I want to be a really strong partner with Detroit and other cities that are on the way back up to make sure you get the investment and the support, the housing, and the jobs that you need.
But we also have to make sure our economy is fairer. That’s why I believe we should raise the national minimum wage because people who work full-time should not be left in poverty.
And isn’t it finally time to guarantee equal pay for women?
This is not a woman’s issue. If you have a wife, a daughter, a mother or a sister who works, it’s your issue. It’s a family issue.
And every time I talk about, you know, wanting to have affordable child care, paid family leave, equal pay for women, the other side accuses me of playing the woman’s card.
I’ll tell you what, if standing up for equal pay is playing the woman’s card, then deal me in.
And one of the other big challenges we’re going to take on, I am so excited about this. You know, I’m really proud of the campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran because it was a campaign about issues.
And what we decided after it was over is how we can work together to make sure that everybody who wants to go to college can afford not just to start but to actually graduate.
So we came up with a plan that if you go to a public college or university, you will go tuition free if your family makes less than $125,000 a year.
And it will be debt-free for everybody above that so you don’t go into debt.
And for people who already have student debt, we’re going to help you pay it down and pay it off to get out from under it.
And I want especially to support historically black colleges and universities that have done so much to bring coordinated leadership cadre in our country.
Now, this is just some of what we are offering in this campaign because we really believe you need to look at what will happen after the election.
You know, I had a friend say to me the other day, you know, people are just frustrated and angry. I get that. I understand that.
We had the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression in ’08 and ’09. Millions lost jobs. Millions lost their homes. Family wealth was wiped out. That is a trauma, and people are still suffering and still climbing back from that. I get it.
But I learned a long time ago from my late mother – anger is not a plan. Right?
Be angry. Vent about it. And then roll up your sleeves and get to work.

That’s what I will do.
That why we put this all down. It’s on our website – HillaryClinton.com. It’s in a book that Tim Kaine and I put out called Stronger Together.
Because not only do I want you to know what I will try to do as your president, I want you to hold me accountable.
I want you when I come back to Detroit, which I will do, when I travel around Michigan, which I will do, I want you to say, “Well, how’s it going getting those new jobs started? How much progress are we making on making sure college is affordable?”
I believe in making lists. Maybe it’s a woman’s thing.
My husband said to me one time, “You have lists of your lists.”
Well, I do because I want to know what we’re going to get done and how we can make progress together.
And ultimately, this election really is about the kind of country we want for our kids and in my case now, my grandkids.
Are we really a nation that believes in freedom and justice for all?
Are we really a nation that recognizes our best years can still be ahead of us if we make up our minds to have that be our goal?
I believe we can do this together. My opponent in his convention said, “I alone can fix it.”
Well, no. Nobody alone does anything.
When our founders met in Philadelphia, it wasn’t one person creating our country. It was many people working together and fighting a revolution to get that democracy and then to fight for civil rights and voting rights and workers’ rights and women’s rights and LGBT rights.
None of them, none of them were won by one person alone.
The American labor movement because somebody one day said, “I alone can make it happen.”
It took millions of people in every one of these movements marching and speaking out and sitting in.
Barack Obama wasn’t put in the White House by one person alone. It took everybody working and organizing and yes, voting. That is how progress happens in America.
So really, it all comes down to you, my friends. You have to vote. Our progress is on the line. Everything that has happened up until this point is on the line.
I’m ready to defend and build on the progress that we’ve made.
I’m proud I was a member of President Obama’s cabinet. I’m proud that he and I are friends.
But he knows and I know that American leadership, American presidents, it’s like running a relay.
You do your very best and then you pass off your baton and you just hope that the person you passed it off to doesn’t drop to the ground or doesn’t turn around and run back the way we came from, which is what my opponent is promising to do.
Now, I’ve told the president that when he hands off the baton, he’s going to have to bend over. He’s a lot taller than I am.
But I’m excited about what we can do.
I know this has been a tough campaign. I’ve got people coming up to me saying they’ve got migraines they’ve never had before. They have stomach aches that they don’t know what they’re going to do with. I get it. It has been in many ways a really tough campaign.
But I’ll tell you what. Michigan, you can make the difference.
All I’m asking you is talk to your friends, talk to your family, talk to your co-workers, talk to everybody.
If you have time to volunteer, go to HillaryClinton.com to volunteer or text JOIN to 47246.
…Because when your children – and there are some beautiful children in this crowd here today – when your children or grandchildren asked what you did in 2016, when everything was on the line, I want you to be able to say I voted for a better, stronger, fairer America.
An America where we build bridges, not walls.
And where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Let’s get to work! Thank you! Thank you Detroit! Thank you Michigan! God bless you!

Thank you! Wow! Thank you all! Thank you! Thank you!
I got to say after hearing – after hearing from these two extraordinary men, I feel all fired up and ready to go for the next five days.
It is so great to be back here with all of you.
…Everything Pharrell and Bernie just said is not only about the presidential election and what’s at stake. It is about who’s going to represent you as your governor, as your senator, as members of Congress, and the legislature. And you have some excellent candidates, and we are so hopeful that you will vote for them and vote for what they represent.
I really want to thank my friend, Bernie Sanders, for everything that he has done. I got to serve with Bernie. We were colleagues in the Senate. I saw firsthand his commitment to the people of Vermont and to the values that have guided his life.
And when we faced each other in the primary, here’s what I was so proud about. We ran a campaign on the issues that mattered to the American people.
And I think because of that campaign, we were able to raise a lot of the issues that you heard Bernie talking about to the level that they are part of this presidential campaign. And they will be part of our agenda after Jan. 20th, Bernie.
And I’ve got to say too, this election’s been a lot more fun now that we’re on the same side.
And I want to thank Bernie for everything he’s done. He’s criss-crossing our country, energizing people, getting folks off the sidelines and engaged in politics. And there’s no question that his efforts are paying off.
And what he said at the beginning of his remarks is absolutely true.
My name may be on the ballot but it is not about me. It’s not about my opponent. It’s not about Bernie. It’s not about David or Deborah.
It is about you and your lives and what we’re going to do together.
Now, Bernie and I have already worked – we worked on the plan that he told you about to make college tuition free for the middle class, for working families, for poor kids, and debt free for everyone.
Because as Bernie said earlier this year, when people who care about progressive causes stand together, we win, and then we can get to work on making those causes into realities for the lives of our people.
So I am proud to be here with you. And I am so excited about the election, about everything that we’re going to do together.

And I’m especially pleased to have Pharrell [Williams] here.
Now, every time I see him, which is not often enough, we always have a good conversation like we did before this event. He always gets you to think.
Not only is he a world-class talent, but he is a passionate advocate for issues that are too often overlooked and ignored.
He wants to and I’m going to do everything I can help him to deliver giving kids who are at risk access to educational and arts programs that they deserve to have just as much as any other child.
So tell me this, tell me this, North Carolina. Tell me, North Carolina. Are you really, really, really, really happy that we’re here tonight?
Well, we sure are. There’s no where we’d rather be.
Now, let me ask you this. How many of you have already voted?
Well, I hope you’re going to bring more people to vote as well. Right?
Are you ready to volunteer? We can all use you in these last days.
Are you ready to elect Roy Cooper? Well, I’m glad to hear that because it’s time you had a governor who puts families first, not radical ideology.
And I love seeing our educators stand up and applaud because you need a governor who actually cares about the education of the children of North Carolina.
Now, are you ready to elect Deborah Ross to the United States Senate?
I’ll tell you, Deborah and her race are the talk of everywhere. People know she will be an independent voice for North Carolina families, that she will represent you with integrity and excellence.
And unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
Are you ready now to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Well, I’m excited. Did any of you see the debates.
Well, you know, there are several – there are several notable aspects of those debates.
I mean, one is the very fact that I stood on the stage for 4.5 with my opponent, proving once and for all that I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
But you know, he also kept saying like “Oh well, you know, what have you done for the last 30 years?”
And you know, occasionally I would interject and say what I had done.
And today in Greenville, we had a perfect comparison.
I started my career fighting for children and families with the Children’s Defense Fund when I got right out of law school in the 1970s.
I went to South Carolina to gather evidence to stop the government in South Carolina from putting young men – teenagers – in jails with adults.
I went to Alabama undercover to gather information about segregated academies to deprive them of tax-exempt status, which they did not deserve.
I went door-to-door in New Bedford, Massachusetts gathering information to make the case that every child in America including children with disabilities should have the right to a public school education.
And as we heard this morning from just a wonderful, distinguished older woman by the name of Mae Wiggins who came all the way down tell her story.
She was a nurse in New York City back in the 1970s, excited about being a young nurse, getting her career off to a start.
And she was looking for a place to live. And she had a budget like everybody does. And she found what she thought would be the perfect place. It was within her budget. It was close to work.
She went to apply for an apartment. It was a new building – brand new building. Wasn’t even totally finished yet.
She went into the little office and asked for an application, and they said, “Oh, we don’t have any apartments.” She said, “But I saw the advertisement.” “Well, we have no apartments left.”
Well, she thought that was pretty peculiar and so she decided to do a little investigation, and she found out that all of her African-American friend who’d gone to that apartment run by Donald Trump and his father, Fred, had been told there were no apartments.
So, she had the gumption to go and make the complaint, which led to the Justice Department suing them for discrimination. They settled the suit but then they had to come back a year later and sue them again because they were still discriminating.
So when you hear, as Bernie so powerfully said at the end of his remarks, that we are standing against the possibility of returning and normalizing discrimination, take it seriously, my friends, because it truly is – it truly is – at stake in this election.

And I was also very, very grateful I had a role in helping to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program as First Lady.
And let me tell you, one of the great honors as I travel across the country is meeting young people who are the beneficiaries or meeting their families.
I met a young woman here in North Carolina who told her story and we actually recorded it because all of us were so moved by what she had to say.
When her baby was born, her daughter she was deaf. And the doctors all said she’ll never communicate. So she cannot learn to speak so you need to teach her sign language.
And the mom did all this research and concluded that there were some treatments that might help her daughter but she didn’t have that kind of money. They didn’t have that kind of insurance.
And she was telling her doctor, she didn’t know what to do, and the doctor just serendipitously said, “You know, there’s this new program, it’s called the Children’s Health Insurance Program. It’s for people who are not poor but they don’t make enough money to afford that kind of insurance, and they don’t work for an employer who provides it. You should look into it.”
And she did. And that began the process of her getting the treatment that her daughter needed.
And when I met the mother, I also met the daughter. Right here. I talked with her. She told me how proud she was because she had just graduated from college – George Washington University.
So, yes, you know I do sweat the details and I do have a lot of plans.
Tim Kaine and I put a whole book out called Stronger Together telling you exactly what we’re going to try to do if we’re fortunate enough to be president and vice president.
Because I actually think it’s important for you to know what we’re going to do together.
And as a senator, I helped to rebuild New York City after 9/11 and provided health care to our brave first responders.
As your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and LGBT rights all around the world.

And you know, everything I’ve done started by listening to people.
Listening to hear your stories, what you’re worried about, and then working to bring people together to find common ground even with people who’ve disagreed with me on lots of issues.
You know, when I was First Lady, I had a great commitment to kids in foster care and I wanted to improve our foster care and adoption laws. And I was looking for some Republican to work with me, and I found one because I did my research and found out that one of the most partisan Republicans – Congressman Tom DeLay – from Texas had a heart for children in foster care.
He and his wife had foster children, and I called him up. I said, “Congressman, would you work with me to change the laws on foster care and adoption?” There was a silence. He said, “Well, what do you want me to do?” I said, “Well, come to the White House. Come to a meeting. We’ll sit down and figure out what we can do.” And we did.
And I meet those kids and I meet those families, kids who were taken out of foster care and given the chance to have a loving, permanent family for the first time.
Now, I’m telling you because I really believe that’s the only way we’re going to get things done. And if you elect me next Tuesday, that is the kind of president I will be.
So, let me just – let me just mention a few of the ideas that we’ve been putting forward to help you and your families get ahead and stay ahead because I truly believe you need a candidate you can vote for not just someone to vote against.
But as you’re making this choice, we need to be clear about what the choice is because come Jan. 20th, America will have a new president. It will be either me or my opponent.
Now, I think it’s fair to say things is going to change. Change is part of life. That much is certain. The question is what kind of change are we going to see?
Are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better America? Or are we going to fear each other and fear our future?
I want you just to imagine – imagine the different kinds of future that are available, depending upon who’s elected on Jan. 20th.
Because by imagining it, I want you to think about every issue you care about – everything that is dear to you.
…As we’ve heard from Pharrell and from Bernie, it’s hard for me to imagine that we would have a president who has demeaned women, mocked the disabled, insulted African-Americans and Latinos, pitted people against each other instead of bringing them together.
That is unfortunately, though, what we have seen in this campaign, what we have seen, what’s been said.
People come and talk to me. I’ve had people say that they can’t sleep, that their stomaches are bothering them, that they have headaches. And I think that’s an important signal because this is a big decision.
And as Michelle Obama has said, the presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.
And I think it’s fair to say that my opponent has already revealed who he is.
And he wants to ban every Muslim in the world from coming to the United States. Our country is founded on religious freedom. It is one of the most important building blocks of our democracy.
He has said that he thinks the lives of black people are all crime and poverty and despair. He has no idea. No idea about the strength of the black church, the vibrancy of black-owned businesses, the excellence of historically black colleges and universities.

He seems not to recognize the rise of a new generation of black activists for social justice and the success of black leaders in every field.
And we saw that again in the way he treated the Central Park Five.
These were five black and Latino kids, some as young as 14, who were wrongly convicted of a terrible crime in New York City back in 1990.
Donald Trump took out full-page ads in four newspapers calling for the death penalty of these kids.
Nearly three decades later, they were exonerated by DNA evidence. And in addition, someone else confessed to the crime. So they were finally released from prison.
But not only did Trump refuse to apologize for what he had said about them and even calling for their executions, he actually said they should still be in prison. Evidence didn’t matter. The law didn’t matter. To him, those kids will always be guilty.
So think about it. If he wants to keep exonerated people in jail, how can we trust him to fight for the rule of justice and fairness and criminal justice reform in America?
Do we want him appointing our judges? Do we want him controlling the Justice Department?
Well, I’ve said many times he has shown us who he is. Now, it is up to us to decide who we are.
And right now, people across our country are coming together to do just that.
They are rejecting the dark and divisive vision for one that is more hopeful and inclusive.
We know that America is big-hearted, not small minded. We want to lift people up, not tear each other down.
And that’s why I do believe we are stronger together.
So let me paint you a different picture. Here’s what we’re going to do together.
We’re going to take on systemic racism with a full commitment and real follow-through because we refuse to accept as normal some of what we’re seeing across America.
What happened to that church in Mississippi yesterday should not have had happened and it should never be accepted. People painted the words “Vote Trump” on the side and then set it on fire. Who would do that? Who would do that to a place of worship where people seek solace?
That can never be normal. It can never be acceptable.
What happened in Flint, Michigan, as Bernie said, can never be normal, can never be acceptable. Little children drinking and bathing in poisoned water that will affect their health for years to come.
And then we know, don’t we, too many young African-Americans are dying in police incidents or because of gun violence.
We know their names – Trayvon Martin and Eric Garner and Sandra Bland and Keith Scott and so many others.
We have got to face this, and we’re going to get to work to do just that.
We are going to dismantle the so-called school to prison pipeline. And we’re going to replace it with a cradle to college pipeline.
And we’re going to start with our youngest kids and their families to give them the support that they need.

And we’re going to take a hard look at what we need to do to make sure every child has the chance to attend good schools with good teachers no matter what their zip code is.
And we will reform our criminal justice system from end to end. It is wrong my friends that black men are far more likely to be stopped by police, charged, and sentenced to longer prison terms than white men for the same offenses.
When I launched this campaign back in April of 2015, the very first speech I gave was on the topic of criminal justice reform.
I said that and I have repeated throughout this campaign we must end the era of mass incarceration.
Too many families have been broken up. Too many communities have been so badly affected.
We have to reform these mandatory minimum in sentencing. We have to ban the box so people who have served their time can get a real chance at a good job and a fresh start.
And we have to restore trust between police and communities. We are all safer when everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respected by the law.
This is important of course to families and communities but it is important to all of us. This is about who we are as a country, about whether we really are a nation that believes in freedom and justice for all.
Too often, despite the progress we’ve made, we fall short of that goal. And we have to be honest about it.
I am determined to make this one of the most important projects of my presidency and I hope all of you will join me in doing that.
And I have to say, I have to say that is only part of what must be done because the leading cause of death for young African-American men more than the next nine causes combined is gun violence.
We have 33,000 people a year dying from guns. I just cannot tolerate this any longer.
I have met the families of those who’ve lost loved ones, who’ve lost the first graders from Sandy Hook, the Bible study church goers in Charleston, the club goers in Orlando, the movie goers in Aurora, Colorado, people going about their lives being cut down and cut senselessly short.
We have to take steps to reduce gun violence, and I know we can do that because the vast majority of Americans agree something must be done, and a very big majority of gun owners agree as well.
And we’ve got to make investments in those communities that are struggling, especially communities of color.
When I was in eastern North Carolina today and I was talking to people there who have been devastated by Hurricane Matthew, people who didn’t have very much to start with who lost everything.
Farmers with 100, 200 acres growing sweet potatoes wiped out. We’ve got to help everybody get ahead. I believe that the economy must work for everyone, not just those at the top.
And I think hardworking Americans deserve a raise and women deserve equal pay.

So, how are we going to do this? Well, we’re going to go where the money is.
Just as Bernie said, we’re going to make the wealthy pay their fair share and make sure Wall Street never threatens Main Street again.
And I can’t wait to work with Bernie to make public colleges and universities like NC State right here in Raleigh tuition free.
I know that this is another issue Pharrell feels passionately about as well.
If you’re struggling with student debt, we’re going to cut that and help you pay it back and get out from under it.
And in my plan is $25 billion fund specifically aimed at supporting historically black colleges and universities. Schools like Shaw and St. Augustine. Because you know they’ve produced some of the finest leaders in our country, and I want to make sure they keep doing that vital.
So we could go on all night. I mean, Bernie and I could really keep you here ’till breakfast because we get excited about what we can do.
But of course, we can’t do anything if you don’t get out and vote and get everybody you know to vote.
This is going to be one of the most consequential elections in our country’s history. You know that.
Because we are at a crossroads. It’s not just who my opponent is.
Pharrell is right. We don’t even have to mention his name very much. Right?
It’s not just about him, although there are some special features that certain raise deep concerns.
It’s about who we are. It’s about what we want, what we’re going to do to make our mark on our country at this time in our history.
I believe America’s best days are still ahead of us if we do what we’re supposed to do.
Every social movement, every economic advance has only come about because people were willing to work and sacrifice and keep pushing forward in the face of adversity.
It’s not easy.
It wasn’t easy to get the vote for women.
It wasn’t easy to have the final efforts made to ensure that the Civil Rights Act was enforced.
It wasn’t easy because there are powerful interests still trying to push us back and push us down.
And right now, you know because in this state a lot of effort was put into trying to suppress the vote. Right?
And some people got discouraged about that. I’ve met some people who say, “Well, you know, I don’t even know what they want. What kind of identification.” It gets a little discouraging.
You cannot get discouraged. Do not grow weary while doing good. Right?

It is now our turn – our turn – to stand up to people like your governor and your legislature who wanted to shut you down and push you back.
Because we are fundamentally a good nation and we need to make sure we deliver on that promise.
And in this election, President Obama’s entire legacy is on the line. Everything he has worked so hard to do against implacable opposition.
As the president said yesterday, everything we’ve done is dependent upon him being able to pass the baton to somebody who believes in the same things he believes in.
So I got to tell you, I’ve told the president I’m ready to take the baton but he’s going to have to bend over because he’s a lot taller than I am.
But I’m not just taking it. All of us are taking it.
We are ready to grab that baton to defend and build upon the progress of his presidency and that is why everyone must vote.
Early vote and vote on Tuesday if you can’t get to early vote.
More than 31 million Americans have already voted.
And listen to this. More than 2 million right here in North Carolina have already voted.
So make no mistake about it. You can make the difference not only in who you elect but in the agenda that those people will then get to work on.
I want you to hold me accountable. I want you to be my partners.
But I can’t do any of this – you know, when I was with our wonderful First Lady last week, she reminded the big crowd that we had in Winston-Salem that President Obama in 2008 won this state by about 14,000 votes.
If you break that down, you know what the difference between winning and losing is? Roughly two votes per precinct. So don’t let anybody tell you their vote doesn’t matter.
You’ve got to get everyone you know to come out and vote. You can vote early through this Saturday, Nov. 5th.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com to confirm your voting location.
Because the best way to repudiate the bigotry and the bluster and the bullying and the hateful rhetoric and discrimination is to show up with the biggest turnout in American history.
And then that will be the story of this election. Let’s make that one for the history books.
Please be part of what we’re doing in these next days.
And let’s make sure that we not only have a future we can believe in but one we can help create together, and demonstrate once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you all!

Hello Arizona! Hello sun devils! You can’t imagine how happy I am to be here with all of you!
I have to thank Anna Raphael [sp] and Gary from the bottom of my heart for sharing Damien’s [sp] story.
A young man who loved our country so much he enlisted to defend and fight for us. He lost his life.
His parents, his teacher were here tonight to remind us that Damien, who gained his citizenship after his death, was a true patriot.
I certainly know that he will be on my mind and in my heart and I hope on yours as well.
Because what makes us great is we are the country that has taken people from everywhere in the world and we all become Americans and we love America and some even fight and die for America.
I want to thank everyone for being here but there are a few people I want to mention particularly.
One, a dear of mine who served the people of Arizona with dedication and grace – the wonderful Gabby Giffords.
I’ll tell you, she has been by my side along with her wonderful husband – Mark Kelly.
I am grateful for her strength and her support.
She turned an evil deed – an act of senseless, hateful violence into a clarion call for us to stand up against that kind of behavior, those sorts of actions joined together to help save lives and prevent further deaths and injuries.
And I am particularly pleased to be here at this great university. There is so much to admire about ASU.
The world class education, the student body that reflects the diversity and talents of our great country.
I’m that the class of 2020 is ASU’s most diverse class ever.
And listen to this, more than a third of the students here are the first in their families to go to college.

You are proof that the American dream is alive and big enough for everyone.
On a personal note, I have to say my husband and I were sad to hear of the passing of your former governor, Rose Mofford.
Now, Rose will be remembered for her passion for public service and also for that great beehive hairdo.
It was larger than life, just like Rose.
And speaking of great Arizona governors, I want to mention someone who’s not here tonight but who’s been campaigning for me across the state. Your former governor, Janet Napolitano.
And it’s a great pleasure to be here with Congressman Ruben Gallego.
And I will have a little more to say about her later but it’s also exciting to be here with someone who I hope will be your next senator, Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick.
And thanks to all the other elected officials and that includes those who represent the Navajo Nation and the Gila River Community.
You know, my friends, there are just six days left in what maybe the most important election of our lifetimes.
So let me ask you this: Are you ready to vote? Are you ready to volunteer?
Are you ready to elect Ann Kirkpatrick to the United States Senate? She will be the independent voice that Arizona families deserve, and unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
Are you ready to elect Paul Penzone? I think it’s time you had a new sheriff in town. Don’t you?
I think you know that Paul will serve and protect all the people of this county and he will follow the law, not his own ideological agenda.
And are you ready – are you ready – to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Now, I’ve got to say, I’m not exactly new to all of this. You know a lot about me. I’ve spent my career fighting for children and families.
When I was First Lady, I helped create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which takes care of 8 million kids every year.
As a senator, I worked to rebuild New York City after the 9/11 attacks, to make us safer in our country, and to provide health care for the brave first responders.
And as your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries, negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights, women’s rights, LGBT rights around the world.
And everything I’ve done has only been because I’m willing to listen to people. People with all kinds of points of views, different experiences and expertise. Those who agree with me and those who don’t agree with me.
Because I think when you’re in public life, you should try to find common ground in order to solve problems together.

I am not interested in perpetuating gridlock. I believe we’ve got some great opportunities in America that will give us the kind of future that all the young people and students here tonight deserve to have.
I really believe that’s the only we’re going to get things done. That is the way a democracy is supposed to work.
And if you elect me next Tuesday, that’s exactly the kind of president that I will be.
I will get up everyday in the White House and work my heart out for you.
I will bring people together, not just those already in Washington but people from across America. People who have ideas from the private sector, from labor, from academics, from the professions.
I want to know what works and we’re going to do more of it in America.
From the first day of this campaign, I’ve been putting out the ideas that I have about how to help you and your families get ahead and stay ahead.
And I truly believe you deserve a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
But if we’re going to make this choice next Tuesday, we need to be clear on what the choice is because one way or another, come Jan. 20th, America is going to have a new president.
And some people say, “Well, what they want is change.”
Well, let me tell you this: Change is certain. We will have change. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
Are we going to build a confident, optimistic, inclusive America that will make us stronger and fairer and better?
Or are we going to hunker down, afraid of each other, afraid of the future and go backwards instead of forward?
That is the question about change.
So here’s what I want you to do. I want you to ask your friends, your family, your neighbors to just think for a few minutes.
Imagine it is Jan. 20, 2017 and imagine it is Donald Trump standing in front of the Capitol
Now, you know, this is a thought exercise.
Imagine he is taking the oath of office.
And then imagine what it will be like to have him in the Oval Office making the decisions that affect your lives and your futures.
Imagine having a president who demeans women, mocks the disabled, insults Latinos and African-Americans, Muslims, POWs, who pits people against each other, instead of pulling us together.
Someone with a very thin skin who lashes out at anyone who challenges him, who praises adversaries like Vladimir Putin and picks fights with our allies and even insults the Pope.
You know, the fact is we really don’t have to imagine what it would be like because everything he has said and done both in his career and in this campaign is a pretty good preview of what’s to come.
If Donald Trump were to win this election, we would have a commander-in-chief who is completely out of his depth and whose ideas are incredibly dangerous.
Someone who wants more countries to have nuclear weapons and who could easily insult a foreign leader or maybe – heaven forbid – start a real war instead of just a Twitter war.

Imagine – imagine – having a commander-in-chief who does insult prisoners of war, calls our military – full of brave and dedicated patriots like Damien – a disaster, insists he knows more than the generals, and attacked a Gold Star family whose son died a hero in Iraq.
Or for that matter, imagine a president who has promised to have huge deportation force to round up millions of immigrants and kick them out, knowing that that will tear families apart but that will also hurt our economy, and the only it would be done is literally sending law enforcement officers house to house, school to school, business to business.
My friends, that does not happen in America and that will not happen in America.
But why would we be surprised? He came to Phoenix and reiterated his position about deporting 11 million people, I guess, loading them into buses or on trains, including their 4 million children who were born in this country, because his top adviser on immigration is Sheriff Joe Arpaio – the person who presided over the worst pattern of racial profiling by a law enforcement agency in American history.
And just last week, Sheriff Arpaio was officially charged with criminal contempt of court because he refused to stop racially profiling Latinos.
Now, imagine, Donald Trump appointing the sheriff our next Secretary of Homeland Security to oversee the massive deportation force.
Well, that shouldn’t be surprising because he doesn’t really see Latinos – even those who’ve been here nine or ten generations – as fully American, does he?
He went after a distinguished federal judge born in Indiana whose parents were born in Mexico. Donald said the judge couldn’t be trusted to do his job because he was “a Mexican”. But he was as American as Donald Trump, as American as you and me.
And that is a great blindspot because Donald Trump doesn’t understand that.
And then imagine a president who thinks the lives of all black people are crime and poverty and despair.
He has no idea about the strength of the black church, the vibrancy of black businesses, the excellence of historically black colleges and universities, the success of black leaders in every field.
Imagine a president who wants to ban every Muslim from ever coming to the United States on business or for a vacation.
I never figured out exactly how that would be. Would we have our customs officials at airports be giving all of us who come through some kind of religious test?
A country founded on religious freedom? That is contrary to our Constitution and that is absolutely unacceptable.
Or imagine a president who insults Native Americans, says organized crime runs rampant on reservations and mocks Sen. Elizabeth Warren by calling her Pocahontas again and again.
Now, no matter who we are, this matters to us because even if you’re not Latino or African-American or a Muslim or a Native American or an immigrant or a POW, we Americans don’t like to see people treated like criminals or traitors or strangers because of their race or their religion or their ethnicity.

That’s not only contrary to who we are but we’re smart enough to figure out that if you have people in authority who are going to be insulting and mistreating some folks, it won’t be long before maybe they’re going to be mistreating you too.
We’ve had so many examples of that in history. We can look just at the terrible history of the 20th century and see that.
So please, remember, we now know who Donald Trump is but that is not who we are, and that is not who America is.
And please, just think about what happens if he were to win to women and girls.
It would mean that our girls grow up with a president who proudly and loudly ranks women by their looks, including the only woman running in the Republican primary.
Remember what he said about Carly Fiorina? A distinguished woman with a tremendous record of accomplishment and basically Trump said, “Nobody will vote for her. Look at her face.”
He brags about doing things to women without their consent. Just imagine what that would mean to girls and women, what it could mean to the sense of self worth that we want our young women to have.
And imagine how it will affect our boys to have a president who talks and behaves like that.
We want our young men and our young women to respect one another and to understand what that means to be a respectful person.
So, for anyone and I know there are a lot of them, for any voters out there who are planning to or maybe already here in Arizona have voted for Donald Trump, that is your choice. I respect that. That is how it works in a democracy.
And contrary to him, I don’t think it’s rigged. I think you’re making a choice. Right?
But here’s what I want you to know, even if you’re not for me, I promise I will be for you as your president.
All I ask – all I ask is that you really think about the kind of person he’s shown himself to be and how he treats people he doesn’t like, how he’s used every trick in the book to get out of paying taxes.
He says he’s worth billions but he contributes zero to our military, zero to our veterans, zero to our highways, and zero to everything else in our government.
Think about that because this is who he is and that won’t change if he’s elected.
Because we know that the presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.
And did any of you see the debates that I had with Donald Trump?
Well, I’ve got to tell you, I mean, I had three debates. I stood there on the stage for 4.5 hours with him proving conclusively I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
But in that last debate, he said something truly horrifying, and that was that he wouldn’t say he would accept the results of the election.
Now, I have been privileged to know former presidents and people who’ve run for presidents – both Republicans and Democrats. And I have to tell you no major party nominee has ever said that.

So stop and think for a minute.
This is his final target. Our democracy itself.
He is questioning our institutions. We have been around for 240 years because we have learned how to work with each other. And boy, it’s not always been easy. Has it?
But we’ve kept moving forward toward a more perfect union, expanding the circle of opportunity, creating the greatest constitutional democracy in the history of the world, the greatest economy that has served as an engine of growth and opportunity.
And he stands on a debate stage and undermines that, refuses to acknowledge how great our country already is.
So that is the choice that will have to be made.
He has shown us who he is. Now, we have to decide who we are.
And right now, across the country, people are doing just that. They are rejecting his dark and divisive vision.
We know that America is big-hearted, not small-minded.
We want to lift people up, not tear each other down.
Because we really do know we are stronger together. That’s always made the biggest difference in how we move forward.
And here’s what I want you to know. If I am fortunate enough to become the next president, if we win this election, it’s going to make a real positive difference in your lives.
If you’re having a hard time paying for college, we’re going to make tuition at public colleges and universities like this one free for millions and millions and millions of families.
If you’re struggling with student debt, we’ve got a plan to ease that burden, cut your bills, and help you pay it back even sooner.
If you care about building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top, then we’re going to have the biggest job creation programs since World War II.
We are going to invest in infrastructure, advanced manufacturing, technology, and innovation.
And yes, we are going to combat climate change with clean renewable energy jobs.
And I want to be the best president small business has ever had. We’re going to create and help small businesses grow.
And in addition to growing our economy, we’re going to make it fairer.
I believe we should raise the national minimum wage.
People who work full-time – and I believe in work – I come from a family that had a hard work ethic. My dad was a small businessman so I believe you work for what you get in life.
But I don’t think we should have barriers and obstacles in the way of people who are trying to get ahead.
And for people to work full-time to still be in poverty doesn’t move them and their children towards the middle class, it keeps them locked down.
So Donald Trump doesn’t even think we should have a national minimum wage. That’s a big difference between him and me.
And you know, what? Finally, we are going to guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
And you know, this is not a woman’s issue. This is a family issue. This is an economic issue.
If you have a mother, a wife, a sister, a daughter, you want her to be paid fairly, and too often that is not what is happening.
I also believe strongly that we need more technical education in high schools and community colleges so that young people have more than one way to get ahead and be successful.
So it’s fair to say, “Well, that all sounds pretty good. But how are you going to do it?”

Well, you know, in one of the debates, Donald kind of made fun of me because I do believe in preparing.
I actually think – fail to plan, plan to fail. That old slogan.
And I also believe in making lists. Now, this may be a woman’s thing. We make lots of lists. Right?
I have this picture in my mind of a big list on the White House lawn – get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. Check!
So here’s how we’re going to do it.
I will not – I will not – raise taxes or sign any effort to raise taxes on anybody making less than $250,000 a year.
Because you know and I know that the wealthy – the millionaires and the billionaires and the corporations are the ones who’ve gotten all the gains from this economy. So we’re going to make the wealthy pay their fair share.
And we’re going to make sure Wall Street never threatens Main Street again.
And you know, somebody says, “Well, you know, how are you going to do that?”
Well, it will really help if you send Ann Kirkpatrick to the Senate so we’ve got some allies to go after the wealthy and their tax breaks and their tax hedges.
I mean, we finally found out in the debate that Trump hasn’t paid income tax for 20 years because he claims to have lost $1 billion.
And then when questioned about it, he said, well, that just showed how smart he was.
You know, I’ve been pondering that. I just don’t know how smart you have to be to lose $1 billion running casinos, for heaven’s sake.
So we have a plan and we have a way to pay for that plan that does not add one penny to the national debt.
By contrast, the only economic plan that Donald Trump has put forward is to cut trillions of dollars of taxes for millionaires and billionaires and corporations.
And you know, when you haven’t paid taxes for 20 years, it almost seems like he wants us to pay him. Because how can he get any more tax benefits than he already has gotten?
We need to end the gimmick that allows somebody to fly around a private plane and a helicopter and live in a penthouse and not pay a penny of federal taxes. Every one of us paid a lot more than he does.
And one of the points that I made in that last debate, which maybe didn’t get enough attention, is that one-half – one-half of undocumented workers in America pay federal income taxes.
So, you know, about half the people he wants to deport. They’ve paid more in federal taxes than Donald Trump has paid.
And then there’s the issue of climate change, which he says is a hoax.
You know, we’re already seeing the effects of climate change, and I have a plan to increase renewable energy, create millions of clean energy jobs that can’t be exported. They’ve got to be done right here in Arizona and across America.
We’re going to help communities prepare for the effects of extreme weather. We’re going to create more resiliency while we try to get ahead of what will be a very big challenge for our country and the world.
Now, if you care about immigration reform, I will fight to pass comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship to keep families together, to keep our economy together.
If you care about LGBT rights, he wants to undo marriage equality.
But we know that in a country built on freedom everyone should be free to marry the person that they love.
If you care about the 33,000 people who die every year from gun violence, well, join Gabby Giffords, join people – the majority of Americans and the majority of gun owners.

No, we need to take common sense steps to reduce gun violence and save lives.
And if you care about workers and the right to organize, he has tried to block a union at his hotel in Las Vegas. That hotel that he made with Chinese steel instead of American steel, by the way. He put Chinese steel workers to work, not American steel workers.
Well, I’m going to stand with people who have a right to have decent wages and good benefits to get into the middle class because when the middle class thrives, America thrives.
And if you care about women’s health, he wants to defund Planned Parenthood.
I believe women should be able to make their own health care decisions and I will defend that right as your president.
On just about every issue that matters to any American and our lives and the future our country, there is such a stark difference, and I just ask you to look at that, to think about it, to really search your heart about what kind of country we are and what kind of country we will be.
You see, I don’t believe we’re at our best when we stoke fear about each other. That doesn’t mean we have to agree about everything. Of course not.
But it does mean that we have to be willing to listen to each other. We have to be willing to come together to solve the problems that we face individually and in society.
You see, I don’t think I have all the answers. I don’t think anybody has all the answers.
When Donald Trump at his convention said he alone could fix everything in America, I thought about our founders meeting in Philadelphia.
According to the history that I was taught, it wasn’t one person. It was a group of people.
I thought about every social movement, every economic advance, it wasn’t one person.
I thought about great universities like this and the faculty and the staff and the students that they draw together, it’s not one person.
It’s everybody working together, contributing your talents, your skills, your ambition, your energy.
That is my experience in America. That is what I know works best in America.
But I can’t work with you and others unless you do what I hope you will and that is to vote.
More than 31 million people – more than 31 million people have already voted early. That includes more than 700,000 people right here in Arizona.
And you know, as the political pundits like to say, this state is in play for the first time in years.
Arizona has only voted for a Democrat for president once since 1948 and that was my husband in 1996. One of the many reasons Bill and I love Arizona.
So for the first time, we have a real chance to turn this state blue again.
And here’s the bottom line. I want to be a president for everyone – Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, Americans of every race and faith and background.
Because I think we deserve a president who understands that our diversity is one of our strengths.

Look at the world in the 21st century. We have it over everybody as long as we get our act together and make up our minds that our best days are ahead of us.
So Arizona, you can make a very big difference. You can vote early through this Friday, Nov. 4th.
If you don’t know where you’re supposed to vote, you can go to IWillVote.com to confirm your voting location.
We are on the path to the biggest turnout in history.
We now have 200 million Americans registered to vote – the biggest number we’ve ever had.
And that includes more than 50 million young people.
Let’s make that the story of this election, not the insults, not the bigotry, not the hateful rhetoric but that America came together, that we decided to vote for the kind of optimistic and confident, unifying vision of our country.
And we would love to have you be part of the last days of this campaign. You can go to HillaryClinton.com and volunteer. Or text JOIN to 47246.
Because I don’t want any of us, not just me, I don’t want any of us to wake up one week from today and think “Oh, if only I had done a little more, things could have turned out different.”
Sometimes – sometimes – the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in time.
This is one of those make or break moments of the United States, and it is in your hands.
And when your kids and grandkids asked what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I want you to be able to say, I voted for a better, stronger, fairer America.
An America where we build bridges, not walls, and where we prove that love trumps hate!
Let’s go to work! Thank you all. God bless you, Arizona!
###

Hello Pittsburgh!
Whoa! Hello back there!
Thank you. Thank you!
Wow! It’s great to be here at this extraordinary time in our country’s history at this great university to have a chance on a beautiful day to lift our sights, to think about what we are capable doing together, the kind of future that we can create if we search for and find common ground.
And it is thrilling to have traveled across our country to see the hopefulness, to talk about the positive changes that are occurring, to really see America at its best.
And tomorrow, each and every one of you gets to make a decision as to whether or not first you will vote because in Pennsylvania, it’s all about election day. Other places around the country have been voting for weeks.
And what you will vote for.
I’m here to ask you to vote for yourselves, vote for your families, vote for you futures, vote on the issues that matter to you because they are on ballot, not just    my name and my opponent’s name.
…[Acknowledgements of public dignitaries omitted]
…We are on the path to see more Americans to vote than we have ever seen in our history.
And I am hoping that you will vote. Obviously, I hope you vote for me. But I also hope – I hope you will send Katie McGinty to the United States Senate.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
…But mostly I’m here to say thanks – thanks for taking time out to think about what’s – what the stakes are –
I love you all, too! Absolutely!

So, for those who are still making up your minds or thinking maybe – maybe – it’s not worth voting at all, let me just say the choice in this election could not be clearer.
It really is between division or unity, between strong and steady leadership or a loose cannon, between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top and economy that is set up and run for those at the top.
Now, I have spent my public career fighting for kids and families and standing up for our country.
And if you give me the privilege of your vote tomorrow, that is what I will do every single day of my presidency.
I will get up in the White House and I will think about what I can do that day to knock down barriers, to create opportunities so that you have the chance to fulfill your own dreams.
You see, I believe America’s best days are still ahead of us.
Now, doesn’t mean we don’t have to work for it because we do, that doesn’t mean that we can just expect it to happen as a birthright, but I really believe that.
I would not have worked for 18 months, traveled across our country, thought as hard as I have about what we need to do and how to do it together, proudly stand up and defend the legacy of President Obama, which has given our country progress in the right direction if I did not believe with all my heart that we could do this.
Right? We can do this.
We don’t have to accept a dark and divisive vision for America.
Tomorrow, you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America.
And our core values are being tested in this election and I know that people are frustrated. A lot of people feel left out and left behind. There’s fear, even anger, in our country.
But I’ve got to say anger is not a plan, my friends.
If we’re going to harness our energy and try to overcome our problems, then we got to start talking to each other again and we have get good ideas wherever they come from.
Last night, I was in Manchester, New Hampshire, and I was with Khizr Khan, whose son Captain Khan was killed while serving in Iraq. You might remember him from the Democratic Convention.
He was not a man seeking to be on the stage of a political convention, but when he heard my opponent say what he said about Muslims and he looked at the flag that had been draped on his son’s coffin, he felt compelled to speak out.
He spoke powerfully about what America means to him and how we have to defend our values and our Constitution.
As he said last night, his son serving in the United States Army with his unit saw something suspicious, moved toward it to check it out, telling his men to stay behind, and when the car exploded, he lost his life. He was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
But as Mr. Khan said, when you listen to all of the people that my opponent has insulted and denigrated, would there a place in Donald Trump’s America for Captain Khan?
The Khan family gives me hope because they truly believe in the values of this great country of ours, and they have stood up holding the Constitution as he did at the convention to say people around the world cherish this Constitution, believe in our values. It’s a source of hope for billions of people.

We will never ever let that go, and we will never let someone rip it away in the kind of negative, divisive, hateful campaign we have seen on the other side in this election.
Sometimes when I hear my opponent speak, I don’t recognize the country he’s talking about.
That doesn’t mean we don’t have problems and challenges. It doesn’t mean that we don’t have to do more to help people across our country get better economic opportunities. Of course we do.
But boy, I believe we can do it. I love our country. I believe in the American people. I know what we are capable of.
Throughout our history, generations of Americans have risen together to meet the tests of their time. They defended democracy, built the greatest middle class the world has ever known, marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and women’s rights, LGBT rights, and rights for people with disabilities.
Tomorrow we face the test of our time. Will we be coming together as a nation or splitting further apart? Will we set goals that all of us can help meet? Or will we turn on each other and pit one group of Americans against another?
Now, our names will be on the ballot tomorrow but those values and every issue you care about will be there too.
What kind of country do we want?
And I particularly think about this for young people as I look at this crowd and see so many students and other young Americans who deserve the same opportunities in this country that many of us were given.
And we will make sure they are available. Because if you think about what it takes to have a thriving America, it comes down to a couple of key issues.
If you believe that America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote.
We’re going to make the biggest investments in good-paying jobs since World War II. Jobs in infrastructure, small business, clean energy, advanced manufacturing.
We’re going to actually deliver on that, unlike my opponent who makes his products mostly overseas, buys cheap Chinese steel and aluminum instead of what’s made by American steel workers right here in Pennsylvania.
We’re going to invest in America, and we’re especially going to invest in communities that are left out and left behind.
We’re going to stand up for the right of workers to organize and bargain.
We’re going to get incomes rising across America.
And if you believe that we need a fairer economy, as I do, then we’re going to raise the national minimum wage because nobody who works full-time should still be in poverty.
And we’re going to do more to support working families with affordable child care, paid family leave, and finally equal pay for women’s work.
I got to tell you, this always gets the biggest applause ever because fundamentally we know it’s not fair but it’s also about families. If you have a mother, a wife, a sister, or a daughter who’s working, you don’t want her short-changed, do you?
Now, when I talk about equal pay and all these other family issues, my opponent says I’m playing the woman’s card. Well, you know what I say – deal me in.
You know, if you believe all of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote.
If you believe that we can make college affordable for every young American, you’ve got to vote.

You know, I’ve got to say, I was very proud of the primary campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran.
It was a campaign on issues and ideas, not insults.
And after it was over, he and I got together and we came up with this plan.
Public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year, and it should be debt free for everyone else.
I don’t think you should go into this massive debt to get your education. It’s good for you, it’s good for your families, it’s good for our country, and we’re going to make it affordable for everyone.
And for the millions of Americans already struggling with student debt, we’re going to ease that burden. We’re going to get those interest rates down. We’re going to give you a different way of repaying it as a percentage of your income, not tied to a 6%, 8%, 10% interest rate. And you’re never going to have to pay more than you can afford.
You see, I think there are a lot of positive things to get excited about. And I think the agenda we’ve put forth in this campaign is one that will really give everybody hope.
You see, working for children and families has been the cause of my life. But it has never been more important than it is right now. So this has to be our mission together doing all we can to help every American, especially every young American and especially every child, to have the chance to live up to your God-given potential.
Because when it’s all said and done, that’s what matters most. Have you helped somebody else? Have you reached out and tried to ease somebody’s burden?
We do it individually. My mother got through a neglected, abandoned childhood because people showed her kindness.
Her own parents didn’t want her. Her own grandparents didn’t want her.
But that first grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat brought extra food everyday to make sure my mother had something to eat.
And she was 14 and had to go out and find a job to support herself and got a job as a maid and a babysitter in somebody’s home, she was just relieved she had a place to live and she could support herself.
But the mother of that home understood my mom wanted to go to high school. So she said, “Dorothy, if you get up early and you get your chores done, you can go to high school. You’ll have to come right back because we’ll need you. But you can do it.”
Now, look, that sounds harsh to our ears telling a 14-year-old, okay, you can go to high school but you’ve got to come right back and you have to work on both sides of it. But to my mother, it was a blessing.
So when I think about what so many people have gone through to give opportunities that we have had – and I’m speaking for myself. My mother gave me the resilience, the grit, the get-up-and-go.
She told me, “Everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get back up.”
And we had a lot of Americans knocked down because of the Great Recession, didn’t we?
Millions of jobs were lost. Millions of homes were lost. Family wealth was wiped out. Savings accounts, 401Ks, everything that people had worked so hard for.
Well, we’ve dug ourselves out of the hole. Now, we’ve got to get up. And we’ve got to make sure we don’t leave anybody behind.
I see this man standing here with a sign – Coal Miners for Hillary – and I’ll tell you, sir, I know how hard times are.
And as I have said and you can take it to the bank, I will not forget you and I will do everything I can to help people who have given so much, worked so hard throughout their lives for generations to build this country. We are not going to forget any American.
But I can’t do any of this without your help tomorrow.
This election is going to really set the course of our country. There’s no doubt in my mind.
Tonight, I’ll be in Philadelphia with President Obama and Michelle, and I so appreciate how hard they have worked for me.

But it’s not for me. It’s for us.
You know, when President Obama came into office, put yourself in his shoes. This young, dynamic first African-American elected to become president of the United States.
And what does he find? He finds the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. That’s what he finds.
Wow, those were hard, hard times. I don’t think he gets the credit he deserves for making sure we didn’t go even deeper into the ditch we were in.
But make no mistake, there were reasons we ended up in that ditch. It didn’t happen by accident.
We had huge tax cuts on the wealthy. The administration in office took their eyes off the financial markets. And we know what happened.
They ignored the pressures in the mortgage markets, and we know what happened.
Elections have consequences for everything we care about.
And that’s why we’ve got to have each and every one of you put down your stake in our future.
If the lines are long tomorrow, please wait.
In early voting, we have had people waiting in line for 2 and 3 hours.
And there have been reporters and others going up and down the line asking people – all kinds of Americans, not one type – all types – “Why are you here?” “Because my future depends on it,” they say.
So tomorrow is the election, but that is just the beginning. We have to heal this country. We have to bring people together, listen and respect each other.
Now, I know it’s unusual for somebody running for president to say this. I started saying this months ago because I literally was meeting people who were scared by what they were hearing in the election.
You know, I’ve known a lot of the Republicans who’ve run for president, been elected president in recent history. I didn’t agree with them on everything, obviously. We had our differences. But I didn’t doubt that they were fit to serve as president.
This election’s different. This person is temperamentally unqualified, experientially unqualified to be president and commander-in-chief, and so many people know that.
So I think we do need some more love and kindness. Right?
We have got to rise above all of this hate-filled rhetoric, all of these insults and scapegoating, and finger-pointing and insulting.
I want to be the president for all Americans, not just some. I want to be the president for Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I want to be the president for those who vote for me and those who vote against me. I want to represent everybody.
Because I know we have a role to play in building a better future. So it starts tomorrow.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com. You can get all the information you need.
The polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
We are on track, as I said, to have a huge turnout. But we can only do that if all of you make up your minds, you bring your friends, everybody you know to make sure your voices are heard.
This is a historic – historic – election, and we’re going to do everything we can not only to win but then immediately to get to work.
And I especially invite anyone who wants to volunteer for the next 24 hours – go to HillaryClinton.com, text JOIN to 47246, stop by one of our offices, we would love to see you.
Because when your kids and your grandkids ask you in the future what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, you’ll be able to say you voted for a stronger, fairer, better America where we build bridges, not walls, and where we finally prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you!
###

…Thank you! It is great to be back in western Michigan. Thank you!
Are there any lakers here?
Oh my gosh, I am so thrilled to be here.
…[Acknowledgment of dignitaries omitted]
I have also the great personal experience and privilege of having worked with Debbie [Stabenow], gotten to know her, become a friend of hers, and I am so excited – I’m so excited at the possibility that I’ll be able to work with her again.
And I really, really hope you’ll tell folks because there is no more dedicated, effective member of the United States Senate than Debbie Stabenow.
She fights for – she fights for all of you everyday but she does it with that smile that never leaves her face. And she brings people together who are on opposite sides of issues because she just keeps talking, and don’t we need more of that in Washington where people actually talk and listen to each other?
So it’s wonderful to be with all of you and to be introduced by Debbie.
Are you ready to vote tomorrow, Michigan?
Are you ready to help get your friends to vote tomorrow?
Well, that is clearly the right answer because we have a really important election tomorrow.
Now, the choice in this election could not be clearer, and I know that for many people you’ve gone back and forth, you’ve thought about what to do. And I really respect that.
But let me say this – let me say this – this election is basically between division and unity in our country.
It’s between strong and steady leadership or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk.
It is between an economy that works for everyone or one that is even more stacked for those at the top.
And I want each and every one of you to be thinking through about all the issues you care about because although my name and my opponent’s name will be on the ballot, those issues and those values are on the ballot as well.

And as you think about what you care about and what you want your future to look like, you have to recognize this is a consequential election.
You know, I have been privileged to know a lot of our presidents over the past decades and people who ran for president.
I was privileged to know as a college student Gerald Ford.
In fact, I had an internship with the House Republican Conference Committee, which he headed, after my junior year in college.
So when I say I’ve gotten to know a lot of our presidents and people who’ve run for president, it goes back a ways.
And here’s what I want you to understand. I didn’t agree with everything they did or said. Even the Democrats. We had differences in politics and policies and sometimes on principle but I never doubted – I never doubted – that they were fit to serve as our president and commander-in-chief.
That’s why this election is so different, and it’s why so many Republicans have spoken out to endorse me and support me, and who have taken very courageous stands against the nominee of their own party. Because they believe that we must put country ahead of party when it comes to this election.
You know, I was at Kent State in Ohio last week and I was introduced by a gentleman by the name of Bruce Blair.
And Mr. Blair had served in the Air Force. He was a young officer assigned to be what was called a launch officer. That meant he served his time everyday sitting in a bunker where the controls for launching nuclear was housed. And his job – imagine the responsibility – a young Air Force officer in his 20s waiting to hear whether or not an order is given for him to launch nuclear weapons.
And Bruce Blair explained that there is no appeal from a president’s order to do that. The Joint Chief of our military forces can’t say “No, don’t do it.” There’s no veto from Congress or anyone else. And the time between the order being given and the actual launch is 4 minutes.
So after watching this election, Mr. Blair began contacting others who had served in this incredibly responsible position, to share his concerns about what he was hearing and seeng.
And several dozen of them – I’ve never met them before – several dozen of them wrote a letter explaining why they could never support Donald Trump to be our commander-in-chief.
And the awesome responsibility that is housed in one person is something I want you to think about between now and the time you vote because I will pledge to you that I will exercise the greatest care and responsibility in all of the powers invested in the office of the presidency.
I also – I also want to pose to you a contrast in visions.
Did any of you see debates?
Well, first of all, I did stand for 4.5 hours with Donald Trump on the stage, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be president.

But I have to say in addition to that, there were so many things that he said that of course I sometimes was surprised by.
But the theme that ran through much of his rhetoric was the presentation of a dark and divisive vision for America.
Now, I have to tell you, I know we’ve got problems. I’ve spent 18 months traveling our country talking to by now hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people, hearing what’s on people’s minds.
We’ve got challenges, but America’s always had challenges. And since when do we become pessimistic and not able to think about what we can do to overcome those challenges and solve those problems together?
I often didn’t recognize the country that Donald Trump was describing. Because from my perspective looking back at our history, we have a tremendous opportunity ahead of us, and you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America that will set the stage for an even better future.
And I want to say especially to the students who are here, I really believe – I really believe that America’s best days are ahead of us if we reach for them together.
Make no mistake, our core values are being tested in this election but my faith in our future has never been stronger.
Last night, in Manchester, New Hampshire, I was introduced by Mr. Khizr Khan.
Some of you know or remember that his son, Captain Khan, serving in the United States Army was killed serving in Iraq.
And like at the Democratic Convention this summer, he spoke powerfully about what America means to him and how we have to defend our values and our Constitution that are the envy of the rest of the world. People look at us with yearning. They see that we are a beacon of freedom, hope, and opportunity for people right here at home.
And you know, when I heard Mr. Khan speak at the convention and I heard him again last night, I was so touched because what he said exhibited a love of our country.
He said when he started hearing Donald Trump speak and all of the things he said about so many people, not only Muslims but African-Americans and Latinos and POWs and women and so many people, when he heard it, he couldn’t help but think as he walked around his house – he has a room where his son’s medals – he got the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart – where the flag that was draped on his coffin is respected presented in a box that he was given it in, and he thought to himself, “Would there be any room for my son in Donald Trump’s America?”
Think about that for a minute because every single one of us has something to contribute to this great country.
We are already great but we can be greater and we will be greater.

I love our country, and I believe in the American people, and I know there is nothing we can’t do when we make up our minds.
Throughout our history, generations of Americans have risen together to meet the tests of their time.
They defended democracy. They built the greatest middle class the world has ever known. They marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and union rights, for LGBT rights, rights for people with disability.
And now, we’ve got to come together, and we have to prove we can meet the challenges of our time.
We’ve got to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top.
If you believe, as I do, that America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote tomorrow.
We are going to make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since World War II. Jobs in infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, our water systems.
These are jobs we need doing in America and they are jobs that cannot be exported. They’ve got to be done right here in Michigan and across our country.
And we are going to invest in new jobs in advanced manufacturing. I am not one of these folks who thinks, “Well, we just can’t make it in America anymore.”
And I’ll tell you why. Because if we have a plan and we actually commit to fulfilling that plan, we can lead the world in precision machining, in 3-D printing.
We’re not competing for low-wage jobs. We’re competing with Germany for high manufacturing, high skilled jobs.
And we are going to have clean, renewable energy jobs as a way to fight climate change.
Now, as you heard, my opponent chose to make many of his products overseas.
And as I pointed out in the last debate, he buys cheap Chinese steel and aluminum instead of good American steel made by American steel workers.
He’s gone all over this country and he’s gone all over Michigan talking about how he’s going to really, you know, get more jobs, and he’s going to bring back what used to be there.
Well, I’ll tell you what, look at his record; don’t just listen to his rhetoric.
Because I have a different idea. We’re going to invest in America again.
And for everybody who is frustrated and anxious and maybe even angry because they feel left out, left behind, that America’s working the way it should. I understand that.
I understand that. I represented upstate New York for eight years. And you know, I saw firsthand a lot of loss of jobs and factories picking up and moving out.
But I also realized that anger is not a plan. You got to come together and figure out what is it we’re going to do to bring new jobs back and create more opportunity for people.
And I’ll just tell you I believe that we’ve got to defend the American workers’ right to organize and bargain for better wages and benefits.
We’re going to get incomes rising here in western Michigan and across this state.
And we’re also going to do more to help small business.
My dad was a small businessman. He worked really hard. He ran a printing plant that printed fabrics for draperies, and I would from time to time help him out. You’d take a silk screen. You’d put it down on the long table. You pour the paint in. You do the squeegee. You pick it up. It wasn’t automated. We were the automators.

And you’d go all the way down to one table and you’d go to another table.
So I know how hard people in small business work.
And I also know something else. Donald Trump made a lot of money off the backs of small business people and contractors by stiffing them and refusing to pay his bills.
And I have said, you know what? I am sure glad my dad never got a contract from Donald Trump because we could not have afforded that.
But it’s not just enough to grow the economy. We have to make it fairer.
And if you believe we need a fairer economy, then you have to vote.
I think the best – the best antidote for whatever ails a person is a good job.
I believe in hard work. That’s how I was raised.
But I also believe if you work hard and you work full-time, you shouldn’t still be in poverty at the end of the year.
And I want to raise the national minimum wage.
And one of the things that I’ve heard all over America, especially from young families, really from all families, but particularly from young families is how hard it is to do so many of the things that are expected. Like where do you find affordable quality child care? In lots of states, it’s more expensive than college tuition.
We’re going to get the cost of child care down. We’re going to have a paid family leave program so that when you have a sick relative or you’re sick, you won’t lose your job.
You know, I saw the folks over there holding up the Tim Kaine sign, and I really appreciate that. Thank you. You know, thank you.
I got to tell you, Tim and I were in Pittsburgh last month and with a big crowd and we couldn’t get everybody in like today and so Tim went out to say hello to people. And he saw a woman holding a baby probably about 3-years-old, and he stopped to talk to her. And she said, “I came here because I wanted to tell you and to tell Hillary Clinton what happened to me.”
She said, “I had my baby. It was a hard labor and delivery, and I needed some time off. And I called my boss and said, ‘You know, the doctors want me to take some time off and so I won’t be in for” – I think she said – “like two weeks.” And they said, “Okay, you’re fired.”
That is legal in America still.
And what that does is to say, wait a minute, do we really value children? Do we really value families?
And we’ve got to have a system that is fair to employers and fair to employees because you’ve got to be able to balance work and family in today’s America.
And then finally, I think it is way past time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
And you know, I got to say that this always gets a huge round of applause as you can tell. But this is not just a woman’s issue. It’s a family issue.
If you have a wife, a mother, a sister, a daughter who’s in the workforce, you want her to be paid what she deserves to be paid to help you and your family.
Now, just about everything I’ve said so far, my opponent disagrees with.
And whenever I talk about affordable child care and paid family leave and equal pay, he says I’m playing the woman’s card. And you know what I say if that’s the case, then deal me in.
And here’s what else I want you to know. It’s fair to ask, “Okay, how are you going to pay for that?” That’s not only fair; that’s necessary to ask because I want to be a good steward of your tax dollars just as I expect you’re a good steward of your family budget.
I have proposed a very simple formula. I will not raise taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year.

And for small businesses we’re going to cut your taxes because I know a lot of small businesses need that kind of tax relief.
So instead, we’re going where the money is – to the millionaires and the billionaires and the big corporations.
And that is in stark contrast to what Donald Trump has proposed. His whole economic plan is cut trillions of dollars of taxes for millionaires and billionaires and corporations. That is trickle down economics on steroids.
I profoundly disagree. I think the way you build an economy is from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down.
And you know, when you think about it, Donald hasn’t paid anything for 20 years. He’s paid zero to support our military, our vets, Pell Grants for students here at Grand Valley, our highways.
And I’m still pondering – I am just pondering how anybody can lose $1 billion in one year, especially when you’re running casinos. I do not understand that.
But that will be one of the mysteries in this campaign because he’s not going to release his tax return between now and the time you start voting. And that sort of suggests there must be something really terrible in those tax returns because everybody else for more than 40 years has released them.
So we’ll still wonder.
But what we know is his economic approach will cost us jobs, not create jobs, and we can’t afford that. We need to keep building.
We have recovered from the worst financial crash since the Great Depression but we’re not where we need to be yet.
The last thing we need is a failed economic policy coming back in and pushing us back down and depriving people of the jobs that we want to create.
And if you believe all of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote.
And if you believe college should be affordable, you have to vote.
Now, I got to say, I am proud of the campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran. Right?
It was a campaign about ideas and issues, not insults.
And when it was over, we actually got together. What a novel idea.
We wanted to figure out how we can work together to actually produce on some of the goals that we both shared.
So Bernie and I worked on this plan together. Public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year.
And they should be debt free for everyone else because nobody should go into debt.
And if you have gone into debt, if you’re among the millions of Americans who are struggling, as I see some hands pointing in the air, paying back your student debt, we are going to help you pay it down and pay it off.
It makes no sense at all. We have interest rates that are really low right now. You can buy a car for – what – 1% or 2%. You can buy a house for 3% or 4%. There are so many people who are paying 8%, 10%, 12%, higher, 8%, 10%, 12% interests.
How much? 12.7%, 14.1%.
I got to tell you, friends, that is outrageous. The federal government should not be making money off of sending kids to college.

I can’t wait to roll up my sleeves with Debbie and Bernie, and we’re going to get to work right after this election if I am fortunate enough to win.
Look, you see, working for children and families has been the cause of my life but it has never been more important than it is right now.
And this has to be our mission together, doing all we can to help every American and especially every young American and every child in America to have the chance to live up to their God-given potential.
I will wake up every single day in the White House trying to figure out what I can do to make that a reality for you.
So after tomorrow, the work will begin.
And one of the highest priorities that I feel an obligation to address is how we bring our country together.
A lot of people say we’ve got to heal our country or as the Bible says “Repair the breach” because we have so much divisiveness right now.
We’ve got to start listening to each other, respecting each other.
Now, I know it’s unusual, I admit, for somebody running for president, especially the day before an election, but I’ve been saying this for months, to say that we need more of two things right now. We need more love and kindness in America.
I don’t know about you. I don’t know about you but I bet every one of us has received a kindness and maybe I hope we’ve all extended one.
I am standing here today because my mother who was abandoned by her parents, rejected by her grandparents, went to work at the age of 14 as a maid and a babysitter, was extended kindness, not by those who should have loved her but by others.
The first-grade teacher who saw that she had nothing to eat at lunch, who began bringing extra food.
The woman whose house she went to work in, who knew that my mother wanted to go to high school. She would have been a freshmen in high school when she had to leave her grandparents’ home and she got this job. And that woman said, “Well, I know you want to go to high school. If you get up early and you get your chores done, you can go to high school but you’ll have to come back because we’ll need you in the late afternoon.”
Now, that may sound harsh to say to a 14-year-old but to my mother, it was a gift.
I tell you this because we all have to start thinking about how we want to be treated and what that means about how we treat others.
And you know, there’s a version of the Golden Rule in every major religion. And it is a reminder that every one of us gets knocked down. The question is, as my mother would say, “Are you going to get back up?”
And for people in our country feel like they’ve been knocked down and nobody cares, nobody’s paying attention, here’s what I want you to know.
If you give me the honor of being your president, I’m going to do everything I can to get this country and everybody in it back up on our feet moving forward together!
Because I want to be a president for all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, Independents. Not just the people who support me. Everybody in this country.
Because I believe with all my heart, each of us has a role to play in building a better future.
So let’s take that first step tomorrow. If you don’t know where you’re supposed to vote, go to IWillVote.com. You can get all the information you need.
If you want to help us bringing out the vote here in western Michigan in the last 24, 36 hours, you can still sign up to volunteer. Go to HillaryClinton.com.
Or you can text JOIN to 47246 or stop by one of our offices. We would be really excited to see you.
Because when your kids and grandkids ask what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll be able to say you voted for a better, stronger, fairer America – an America where we build bridges, not walls, and an America where we prove that, yes, love trumps hate!
Thank you all so much!

Hello, Philadelphia!
Oh, thank you. I am so grateful to be here tonight to spend this time with all of you here in this historic spot.
And to all the volunteers, the activists, the union organizers, of the hardhats I see in the audience tonight, thank you for coming out for one last rally before Election Day tomorrow.
And personally, I am so happy to be finishing this campaign with my husband and my daughter by my side. We’ve been traveling across the country separately trying to cover as much ground as possible and talk to as many voters as we can. But I’m really glad we’re all together tonight in Philadelphia with you.
And how great was it to have Jon Bon Jovi and Bruce Springsteen with us?
But in addition to all of that, what is so special for me is that we have our amazing President and First Lady with us because for nearly eight years they have served our nation with grace, strength, brilliance, and a whole lot of cool.
And they have shown us again and again, as Michelle said right here in Philadelphia back at our convention, when others go low, we go high!
I’m pretty sure as they said tonight that the best way to thank them is to [vote]…
Because as the president just pointed out, there is a clear choice in this election.

A choice between division or unity. Between an economy that works for everyone or only those at the top. Between strong steady leadership or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk.
So make no mistakes, our core values are being tested in this election.
We know enough about my opponent. We know who he is.
The real question for us is what kind of country we want to be and what kind of future we want to build for our children.
I’m proud that I had the chance to serve in President Obama’s cabinet.
And I am proud that I could watch the extraordinary service of our First Lady.
And one thing I know is that like them I love America and I know you do too.
We love this country. We love what it stands for, not that we are blind to its flaws, its problems, its challenges.
But I believe with all my heart that America’s best days are still ahead of us if we reach for them together.
We choose to believe in a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America, an America where everyone has a place, everyone’s included, everyone has a chance to live up to their own God-given potential.
There have been so many memorable moments in this election for me, and most of them revolve around the people that I’ve had the privilege of meeting.
And last night in Manchester, New Hampshire, I had the honor to be introduced by Khizr Khan, whose son Captain Khan was killed serving our country in Iraq.
Just as he did here at our convention, Mr. Khan again reminded us of the responsibility we all share to protect and defend our Constitution.

You remember the story of Captain Khan. The son of immigrants himself, brought here as a young child, who grew up to join the United States Army.
And on that fateful day, with his unit, he saw a suspicious car and he moved toward it to try to determine whether it was a danger or not, telling his men to stay back. The car was rigged. The bomb went off. And he died protecting his men.
He was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
And what Mr. Khan said last night is something I want us all to remember.
He said after the many derogatory and insulting comments that we’ve heard from Donald Trump, would his son – would Captain Khan – have a place in Donald Trump’s America?
That’s an important question for all of us because we don’t want to shrink the vision of this great country. We want to keep expanding it so that everyone – everyone – has a place to pursue your dreams, your aspirations, the future that you want to create for yourselves and everyone…[inaudible]
Think about when you go to the polls tomorrow.
Think about how throughout our history, generations of Americans just like us have come together to meet the tests of their time.
And yes, as President Obama said, it started right here in Philadelphia when representatives from 13 unruly colonies came together to launch the greatest experiment the world has ever seen.
Our parents and grandparents defended that democracy. They built the great American middle class. They marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and women’s rights, for LGBT rights and rights for people with disabilities.
And tomorrow, we face the test of our time.

What will we vote for, not just against?
What will we decide is on the ballot because although my name and my opponent’s name may be on the ballot, every issue you care about is on that ballot.
If you believe that America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote.
If you believe all of our kids should have good schools and good teachers not matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote.
If you believe college should be more affordable, you have to vote.
If you believe we must reform our criminal justice system so everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respected by the law, you have to vote.
If you believe we need to protect our kids and pass common sense gun safety reforms, you have to vote.
If you believe we must raise the minimum wage and finally guarantee equal pay for women, then you need to vote.
Now, you know, every time I say that last part about equal pay for women, my opponent accuses me of playing the woman’s card. Well, you know what I say. If that’s playing the woman’s card, then deal me in.
So it is not just my name or Donald Trump’s name on the ballot tomorrow. Every issue you care about is at stake.
And that is just the beginning because we have to bridge the divides in our country.
I regret deeply how angry the tone of the campaign became.
And by the way, did any of you see those debates?
Well, I stood next to Donald Trump for 4.5 hours proving conclusively I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
But I have to say – I have to say that there were so many really troubling things that my opponent has said.
But probably the most horrifying was at the end of the last debate.
After he has insulted everyone – more than half the population, by the way – immigrants, African-Americans, Latinos, POWs, Muslims, women, he then launches an attack on our democracy, refusing to say whether or not he would accept the outcome of the election.
Well, let’s show tomorrow there will be no question about the outcome of this election.

But I also want you to know I will be a president for all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, Independents – not just the people who support me in this election – everyone.
Because I believe we all have a role to play in building a better, fairer, stronger America, building on the progress that we have enjoyed under President Barack Obama over the last eight years.
I am not going to let anybody rip away the progress we’ve made and turn the clock back, sending us back in time where people are free to question the foundation of our country.
What our founders here did, you know, they did not agree on everything in case you haven’t remembered. There were lots of contentious arguments but they saw a higher purpose and they came together.
That’s what I want us to do and we can take the first step tomorrow. Please, make a plan to vote.
Pennsylvania, it all happens tomorrow.
If you text the word plan – P-L-A-N – to 46246, we will walk you through where to vote, when to vote, how to get there.
You can do that right now, and please tell your friends, your family, your neighbors.
And you can go to IWillVote.com and get all the information you need.
Every person who lives in Philadelphia lives within 5 blocks of your polling place. That’s it. Just 5 blocks and the polls open at 7 a.m. and they close at 8 p.m.
And remember if you’re in line at 8 p.m., they have to let you vote.
And so we need your help. In these last hours, we need your help knocking on doors and making phone calls, helping to turn people out, maybe helping people who need assistance to get to the polls.
You can still volunteer by going to HillaryClinton.com.
Because none of us – none of us – want to wake up on Wednesday morning and wish we had done more.
Years from today, when your kids and grandkids asked what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I want you to be able to say that you did vote. You voted for an inclusive, big-hearted, open-minded country, future that we’ll make sure that we all keep moving together because I do believe we are stronger together.
And you voted for an America where we build bridges, not walls.
And maybe most importantly, you voted in great numbers to demonstrate conclusively, once and for all, that yes, love trumps hate!
Let’s get out and vote, Philadelphia! Tomorrow, let’s make history together! Thank you! And God bless you!

Thank you! Thank you!
Well, I got to tell you this is sure worth staying up for.
It is so great to be here in Raleigh, here at North Carolina State.
And I cannot imagine a better way of ending this campaign than having the opportunity to see all of you and to watch and listen to Lady Gaga, one of the most inventive, creative, and passionate performers whose range goes from A to Z and beyond.
And I was watching on the screen not only her perform, but all of you jumping and singing and waving. It was great!
Because you know what? That’s what I want for America and the young people of America – the joy, the passion, the intensity!
And you know, our longtime Jon Bon Jovi was with us. He was with us up in Philadelphia where he and Bruce Springsteen sang.
And Jon say, “Well, hey, I want to go down to Raleigh.” And so here he is.
And you know between now and the time the poll closes tomorrow, we are going to be living on a prayer.
I was really impressed when everybody’s went up saying you’d already voted. Well, go find somebody else who hasn’t voted. Okay?
Bring out your friends, your roommates, strangers on the street. Just stop and talk to them about what’s at stake in this election. Because North Carolina is key.
And it’s not only important for our election. Are you ready to elect Roy Cooper as your next governor?
Well, I sure hope so. I sure hope so.
And I hope you’re ready to elect Linda Coleman your next lieutenant governor.

And how about Dan Blue III for state treasurer?
And I really, really hope you will send Deborah Ross to Washington.
Now, we are all fired up when we were with the president and Michelle in Philadelphia.
You know, the president was talking about how absolutely consequential this election is and of course it is.
I really believe it’s the most important election of our lifetimes because we’ve never had a clearer choice. Never.
It is a choice between division or unity, between strong steady leadership or a loose cannon who could risk everything.
It’s a choice between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top.
And it is a choice that really goes to the heart of who we are as Americans.
What I saw before I came in and what I see now is a sense of potential, of joy.
There is no reason, my friends, why America’s best days are not ahead of us if we reach for them together.
We don’t have to accept a dark and divisive vision for America. Tomorrow you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America.
Our core values are being tested in this election but my faith in our future has never been stronger.
I love our country and I believe in the American people.
And I know if we bring everyone together, we can set goals and we can move toward them and we can feel that sense of accomplishment that comes with being part of something bigger than ourselves.

You know, one of the great privileges of criss-crossing the country as I have in this campaign is meeting remarkable people.
People who stand up against the odds.
People who like my late mother.
People who understand that everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get back up, whether you believe you can keep going.
Last night, in Manchester, New Hampshire, I had the honor of being introduced by an extraordinary man, Khizr Khan, whose son Captain Khan was killed serving our country in Iraq.
You may remember Mr. Khan’s speech at the Democratic Convention. And again last night, he reminded us of the responsibility we all share to protect and defend our Constitution.
The story of Captain Khan is one of courage in the face of danger. He was with his unit when he saw a suspicious vehicle. He told his men to stay back. He moved toward the vehicle to check it out. And the bomb went off.
He lost his life but everyone else in his unit survived. He was awarded the Bronze Star.
And this intensely personal tragedy that the Khan family experienced, becoming a Gold Star family, was one that they thought about, grieved over in the privacy of their home until they heard my opponent start talking about who was acceptable in America and who wasn’t.
The categories of people, starting with immigrants, including African-Americans and Latinos and POWs and Muslims, the list went on and on and on.
And it created in Mr. Khan a sense of despair because he asked himself – would his son have a place in Donald Trump’s America? Someone who paid the ultimate price in serving our country.
Well, we can answer that question tomorrow resoundingly. Yes, absolutely!

Think about how generations of Americans throughout our history have come together to meet the tests of their time.
Our parents, our grandparents, our great-grandparents defended democracy. They built the great American middle class. They marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and women’s rights, for LGBT rights, and the rights of people with disabilities.
And tomorrow, we face the task of our time. So remember, it’s not just my name or Donald Trump’s name on the ballot. It’s the kind of country we want. It’s every issue anyone cares about.
So if you believe America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote tomorrow.
If you believe we should make the biggest investments in new jobs since World War II, in infrastructure, in advanced manufacturing, clean energy, small business, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need more fairness in our economy, to raise the minimum wage, because no one who works full-time should still be in poverty, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need to do more to support working families with affordable child care, paid leave, and equal pay for women, then you have to vote.
And remember, when my opponent says every time I talk about these issues that I’m playing the woman’s card, well, you know what I say – deal me in!
And if you believe – if you believe all kids deserve good schools with good teachers no matter what zip code they live, you have to vote.
And if you believe college should be more affordable, you have to vote.

Bernie Sanders and I worked on a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition free if you earn less than $125,000 and debt free for everybody else.
And for the millions of Americans struggling with student debt, we are going to help you pay that down and pay that off.
If you believe in science and that we’ve got to address climate change, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need to reform our criminal justice system so that everybody is treated fairly, then you have to vote.
And if you believe – if you believe – we should never write discrimination into our laws, well, then you know – you know North Carolina, you’ve got to vote to get rid of HB 2.
Now, this is so energizing. We could keep going with a long list.
But here’s what else I want you to know. Good thing this election didn’t land during exams. That’s all I could say.
But tomorrow, tomorrow night this election will end. But I want you to understand our work together will be just beginning.
We have to bridge the divides in this country. As the Bible says, we have to repair the breaches.
We’ve got to be willing to start listening to each other again, respecting each other again.
And I want to thank Gaga because she has always stood for that fundamental principle of respecting everybody.

So, I want you to know and I want you to spread the word, I do want to be president for all Americans, not just some, not just for the people who support me and vote for me. I want to be president for everyone because we all have a role to play in building that better future for our country and for each of you.
So, if you haven’t voted yet, go to IWillVote.com. You can get all the info you need.
And you can still sign up to volunteer. Right? Go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN to 47246 or stop by one of our offices. We would welcome you to help make sure everybody gets out to vote tomorrow.
Because none of us want to wake up Wednesday morning and wish we had done more. Right?
And years from today when your kids and grandkids asked what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, you’ll be able to say you voted for a stronger, fairer, better America. An America where we build bridges, not walls. And where we prove conclusively that, yes, love trumps hate!
Thank you! Let’s go vote, North Carolina! God bless you. Thank you all!

Thank you so much!
I am so, so touched and so grateful to be here in Manchester with all of you and particularly with Mr. Khan.
As he was speaking, I saw several of you holding up your Constitutions. And he reminded us all of the fundamental values that set us apart as Americans. He and his family exemplify the values that make America great.
And in a race that has been marked by ugly suspicion and insults and attacks of all kinds against immigrants and Muslims and so many others, Mr. Khan I think reminded all of us that we are Americans.
His son was an American who gave his life for our country. We cherish the Constitution and we will defend it.
In fact, when a president is sworn in on inauguration day, that’s the oath that a new president swears to – to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.
The first words I ever heard about Mr. Khan were about his son’s courageous final moments serving our country in Iraq.
He told the other troops in his unit to get back from a suspicious vehicle approaching their position. But he went forward. He took 10 steps toward danger before that car exploded.
After his death, he was awarded both the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
And here’s what Mr. Khan said that really struck a cord with me, and as the story he just told us of the mother telling him about her son being bullied, these are words that I would hope that all Americans and particularly young Americans would hear and heed.
Mr. Khan said, “We still wondered what made him take those 10 steps. Maybe that’s the point where all the values, all the service to country, all the things he learned in this country kicked in. It was those values that made him take those 10 steps.”
“And those 10 steps”, Mr. Khan went on to say, “told us” – meaning he and his wife and his family told us – “we did not make a mistake in moving to this country.”

In fact, I think we should all be grateful that this remarkable family decided to make America their home.
We should be grateful for everyone who looks at America and sees a beacon of hope worth defending.
This means so much. This means so much to me because like all of you I love our country.
And I believe with all my heart that our best days are still ahead of us if we reach for them together.
I also believe, as Mr. Khan and I were talking before we came on, that we will have some work to do to bring about healing and reconciliation after this election.
We have to begin listening to one another and respecting one another.
Because our core values are being tested in this election.
But when I meet people, when I have a chance to hear from them about what they want for themselves and their families, my faith in our future has never been stronger.
This election is a moment of reckoning. It is a choice between division or unity, between strong steady leadership or a loose cannon who could put everything at risk.
And so, my friends, this is one of these elections that really is a crossroads election in our country.
I’m grateful to be joined tonight by so many wonderful people. There’s a big overflow there – several overflows – and I hope they can all hear my voice.
I want to thank James Taylor for that wonderful performance. So many of his songs are a part of the soundtrack for America, and it’s wonderful that he could be here with us along with his wife.
I’m thrilled to be with your next senator, Maggie Hassan.
Maggie will bring a wealth of experience to Washington. She will bring the skills that enabled her to work across the aisle in the legislature and with the legislature. And we need that kind of common sense, problem-solving approach, that independent voice that New Hampshire so deserves to have.

So I hope and trust you will send Maggie to the Senate…
And I hope you will send Colin Van Ostern to the governorship.
Colin will build on Maggie’s record of accomplishment, and I think about all of the jobs that have been created in this state, how college has been made more affordable, how you’ve taken on the epidemic of addiction. You’re doing it the New Hampshire way, and both Maggie and Colin represent that.
I sure think Washington needs more of that, and I want you also to know how important it is to send Congresswoman Annie Custer and Congresswoman Carol Shea Porter to Washington as well.
Both Annie and Carol will bring the same attitude about rolling up their sleeves and getting to work for you that we really need in the Congress right now.
And another great member of the Senate who’s been up here campaigning for Maggie and talking about what will make the Senate work better is the senator from Rhode Island, Sheldon Whitehouse, who’s here with us.
And finally, finally, I want to just recognize a New Hampshire native who is now the Attorney General of Massachusetts, Attorney General Maura Healey.
Now, elections are of course a choice. A choice between the people who are running. But much more than that, they are a choice about what we want to do in our country, what kind of country we want.
And they’re often premised on the visions, the views of the candidates.
And what I’ve tried to do in this campaign is to lay out an agenda. What a novel idea!
I actually want you to know what I will try to do if I’m so honored as to become your president.
And my running mate, Tim Kaine, and I got together and we put out a book called Stronger Together, which has all of our policies together. It’s – yes, I see somebody holding it up back there.
Because we don’t only want you to know what we plan to do, we want you to hold us accountable.
When I come back to New Hampshire, I want you to ask, “How is that college affordability plan going? What are we doing about getting the cost of prescription drugs down? How are we managing the economy so that it produces more good jobs for everybody, not just those at the top?”
I want – I want us to have an ongoing discussion about how we are all going to contribute to making our country all it should be.

I really believe that America’s best years are still ahead of us if we all do our part.
And I think it’s fair to say after all the months in this campaign my opponent has a very dark and divisive view of our country. Sometimes when I hear him speak, I honestly don’t recognize the country that he is talking about. Sometimes I’m not sure he recognizes the country he’s talking about.
Did any of you see the debates? Did you all see the debates?
Well, I did spend 4.5 next to Donald Trump in those debates, proving conclusively I have the stamina to do this job.
But it’s also – but I think it’s also important that we believe in a hopeful, inclusive big-hearted united America. Right? Where everyone has a place, where everyone is included, where people who are willing to work hard can get ahead and stay ahead, where we recognize the importance of the American dream and we believe and we will ensure it is big enough for everyone, not just a few.
So I really believe that although my name and my opponent’s name may be on the ballot come Tuesday, what’s really on the ballot is what kind of country we want for our children and our grandchildren.
What’s really on the ballot is every single issue we care about.
Our Constitution set up a system of government that has stood the test of time. It can sometimes be frustrating, provide challenges. We know that.
But here we are – the longest lasting democracy in the history of the world. That is to be cherished and nurtured, not demeaned, not degraded.
Now, if you believe that our brave men and women in uniform like Captain Khan deserve a commander-in-chief who knows what needs to be done. Then you have to vote. Don’t leave it to chance. Don’t leave it to others. Use your voice and your vote.
Because my opponent actually said more countries should have nuclear weapons.
And when a journalist asked him about using nuclear weapons, he said, “Well, why do we make them?”

I wonder if he even realizes he’s talking about nuclear war.
The other day in Ohio, I was at Kent State University, and I was introduced by a man named Bruce Blair.
He had been in the Air Force decades ago and he was a launch officer in our nuclear program, which meant that he sat in a bunker during his watch time in case the president – whoever the president was – were to order a nuclear attack.
And Bruce Blair knows there is no appeal from a president’s order to launch a nuclear attack. There is no veto by the joint chiefs of staff or anybody else. If a president orders a nuclear attack, there’s about a 4 minute window before it happens.
I’ve never met Mr. Blair before. He’s gone on to have a distinguished career in security studies.
But as he was watching this campaign and reflecting on the service he did as a young man, he realized he could never support Donald Trump, and he called other launch officers – sometimes called missileers – and asked them what they were thinking. And to a person they said this is unacceptable, this is actually scary.
So several dozens of them wrote a letter saying that they know what the awesome responsibility is that the president of the United States hold and they could never support Donald Trump to be our president and commander-in-chief.
And if you believe like I do that our economy grows and America thrives when the middle class grows and thrives, then you have to vote too.
We’re going to make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since World War II – jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing and clean energy, small business jobs.
I want to be the best small business president we’ve ever had to enable more people to get started and grow their businesses.
In contrast, my opponent built his fortune on the backs of small business owners.
But I’m a daughter of a small businessman, and I am just so glad my dad never got a contract from Donald Trump because so many who did were stiffed.
But I want to make sure that we have easier access to capital, less red tape, more tax relief for people willing to take the risk of going into small businesses.
I also think it’s imperative that we make our economy fairer. And that means I do support raising the national minimum wage.
Because as I said, I believe in work. That’s how I was raised.

And I think we can do better for people who work full-time and still are mired in poverty.
We want to get back to having ladders of opportunity. If you work in America, you ought to be able to get ahead in America, and we’re going to make that happen again.
And we’ve got to start recognizing that families need more support, and that’s why I want to make child care affordable instead of costing as much as tuition.
And it is time that we had paid family leave so that you can take care of the most important obligations that you have.
And it is way past time to guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
And you know, this is not just a woman’s issue; this is a family issue.
If you have a mother, a wife, a sister, or a daughter, this is your issue, and this is an issue worth voting on because it’s time we made it fairer for working women.
And every time I talk like this, my opponent says I’m playing the woman’s card. Well, you know what I say – deal me in!
And if you believe all of our kids should have the chance to thrive in good schools with good teachers, no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote because we’ve got to make public education work for everyone.
And I think we need some water. Yeah, do we have some water that we can get here? If we have some water, that would be a big help. Okay, great.
Now, look, I think when it comes to education, we do need to have high quality affordable pre-kindergarten in every community. I also believe we need to bring back technical and vocational education into our high schools.
Because a four-year college degree should not be the only path to a good job and a middle class life in New Hampshire or in America.
And for anyone who does want to go to college, we are going to make it affordable.
Now, after the primary was over, and I have to say you all cleaned my clock in the primary. I know. But it was a great primary because it was about ideas and issues, not insults. And I’m proud of the race Sen. Sanders and I ran.
And when it was over, we got together and we sat down and we said, “How can we work to deal with a lot of the issues that we were both concerned about in the primary?”
And we’ve put together a plan. Public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year.

And it should be debt free for everyone else.
We have to treat it like an investment.
And Bernie and I were just in North Carolina campaigning together and it’s so exciting because we know that not only do we have to make college affordable but we also have to help the millions of Americans who are already struggling with student debt to ease that burden, get those interest rates down, make it so you never have to pay more than you can afford.
So, you see, working for children and families has been the cause of my life but it’s never been more important than it is right now.
And it will be our mission together, doing everything we can to help all our kids and every American have the chance to live up to their God-given potential.
I am taking very seriously the obligation that I feel to reach out to all Americans.
I’m asking for the support not just of Democrats but also Republicans and Independents in this election.
I want to be the president for all Americans – those who vote for me and those who do not vote for me – because we have to heal this country and that’s going to take everyone.
We have to remember how to disagree without being so disagreeable.
And you know, it is unusual for somebody running for president to say that what we need more of in our country is love and kindness but we really do. Toward one another, toward people different from ourselves.
We all have a role in building a better, stronger, fairer America.
And I am very honored to have gotten the kind of support I have received from Republicans here in New Hampshire, and I really am very grateful for the recent statement by former Sen. Gordon Humphrey about what’s at stake in this election.
So, you know, we can’t do any of this work unless we’re successful on Tuesday.

It really all starts then.
Our future is in our hands.
And anyone who says they’re going to stay on the sidelines or it doesn’t matter really doesn’t understand what’s at stake in this election.
We’ve got to get every American eligible to vote register to vote. And here in New Hampshire, you’ve got same-day registration so you can all get out and vote.
We’ve got to get everyone to believe that this election is about you. It is about you, your dreams, your aspirations, your hopes, your family, your community.
I have never felt more strongly about what we can do together. I am confident and I am optimistic about the future we can make together.
If you don’t know where you’re supposed to vote, you can go to IWillVote.com. They will tell you there.
You can still volunteer. We have been knocking on hundreds of thousands of doors. I bet some of your. Right? And some of you did the knocking.
But we are not taking anyone or anything or any place for granted. So if you want to volunteer, you can go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN 47246.
It really comes down as far as I’m concerned for me personally to my grandchildren, because I feel very blessed that I have had opportunities in our country because of my family and because of what others have done to prepare the path for me going back to our founding.
And I really want each and every one of us to think for a moment about how we would feel on Nov. 9th if we were not successful.
When your kids and grandkids ask you what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’re able to say you voted – you voted – for a better, stronger, fairer America, an America where we build bridges, not walls, an America where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Let’s go vote, New Hampshire! Thank you! God bless you!

Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much.
Very rowdy group. Thank you, my friends. Thank you. Thank you so very much for being here. And I love you all too.
Last night, I congratulated Donald Trump and offered to work with him on behalf of our country.
I hope that he will be a successful president for all Americans.
This is not the outcome we wanted or we worked so hard for, and I’m sorry that we did not win this election for the values we share and the vision we hold for our country.
But I feel pride and gratitude for this wonderful campaign that we built together – this vast, diverse, creative, unruly, energized campaign.
You represent the best of America and being your candidate has been one of the greatest honors of my life.
I know how disappointed you feel because I feel it too and so do tens of millions of Americans who invested their hopes and dreams in this effort.
This is painful and it will be for a long time.
But I want you to remember this. Our campaign was never about one person or even one election.
It was about the country we love and about building an America that’s hopeful, inclusive, and big-hearted.
We have seen that our nation is more deeply divided than we thought.

But I still believe in America and I always will.
And if you do, then we must accept this result and then look to the future.
Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.
Our constitutional democracy enshrines the peaceful transfer of power, and we don’t just respect that; we cherish it.
It also enshrines other things – the rule of law, the principle that we are all equal in rights and dignity, freedom of worship and expression. We respect and cherish these values too and we must defend them.
Now and let me add, our constitutional democracy demands our participation, not just every four years but all the time.
So let’s do all we can to keep advancing the causes and values we all hold dear – making our economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, protecting our country and protecting our planet, and breaking down all the barriers that hold any American back from achieving their dreams.
We’ve spent a year and a half bringing together millions of people from every corner of our country to say with one voice that we believe that the American dream is big enough for everyone, for people of all races and religions, for men and women, for immigrants, for LGBT people and people with disabilities  – for everyone.
So now, our responsibility as citizens is to keep doing our part, to build that better, stronger, fairer America we seek. And I know you will.
I am so grateful to stand with all of you.
I want to thank Tim Kaine and Anne Holton for being our partners on this journey.
It has been a joy getting to know them better, and it gives me great hope and comfort to know that Tim will remain on the front lines of our democracy representing Virginia in the Senate.
To Barack and Michelle Obama, our country owes you an enormous debt of gratitude.
We thank you for your graceful, determined leadership that has meant so much to so many Americans and people across the world.

And to Bill and Chelsea, Mark, Charlotte, Aidan, our brothers and our entire family, my love for you means more than I can ever express.
You criss-crossed this country on our behalf and lifted me up when I needed it most, even 4-month-old Aidan who would travel with his mom.
I will always be grateful to the creative, talented, dedicated men and women at our headquarters in Brooklyn and across our country.
You poured our hearts into this campaign.
For some of you who are veterans, it was a campaign after you had done other campaigns. Some of you, it was your first campaign.
I want each of you to know that you were the best campaign anybody could have ever expected or wanted.
And to the millions of volunteers, community leaders, activists, and union organizers who knocked on doors, talked to neighbors, posted on Facebook, even in secret private Facebook sites, I want everybody coming out from behind that and make sure your voices are heard going forward.
To everyone who sent in contributions as small as $5 and kept us going, thank you. Thank you from all of us.
And to the young people in particular, I hope you will hear this.
I have, as Tim said, spent my entire adult life fighting for what I believe in. I’ve had successes and I’ve had setbacks. Sometimes really painful ones.
Many of you are at the beginning of your professional, public and political careers. You will have successes and setbacks too.
This loss hurts. But please, never stop believing that fighting for what’s right is worth it.
It is. It is worth it.

And so we need you to keep up these fights now and for the rest of your lives.
And to all the women and especially the young women who put their faith in this campaign and in me, I want you to know that nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion.
Now, I know – I know we have still not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling but someday someone will and hopefully sooner than we might think right now.
And to all the little girls who are watching this, never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams.
Finally, finally, I am so grateful for our country and for all it has given to me.
I count my blessings every single day that I am an American.
And I still believe as deeply as I ever have that if we stand together and work together with respect for our differences, strength in our convictions, and love for this nation, our best days are still ahead of us.
Because you know, you know, I believe we are stronger together and we will go forward together. And you should never ever regret fighting for that.
You know, Scripture tells us “Let us not grow weary in doing good for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart.”
So my friends, let us have faith in each other. Let us not grow weary. Let us not lose heart. For there are more seasons to come and there is more work to do.
I am incredibly honored and grateful to have had this chance to represent all of you in this consequential election.
May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America.

Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
Oh, it is so wonderful to be here with all of you on behalf of the Children’s Defense Fund.
I was listening backstage as Marian went through the 45 years that we have known each other, and even reminded me of some things that I had not recalled, namely that this event was the very first event that my husband and I went to after he was elected president, and so it’s especially poignant and meaningful for me to be here again with all of you.
And I want to start by congratulating the terrific young people that we are celebrating tonight.
You will hear more about each of them because each has faced painful challenges – violence and poverty, abandonment. But they never gave up. They never stopped reaching, never stopped dreaming. And yes, they have beaten the odds.
They called Troy [sp], the little boy who could. He’s an artist on the basketball court and a flourishing writer in the classroom, and he dreams of becoming a filmmaker.
Bethany [sp] lived in one foster home after another. But with the help of a wonderful teacher and her own determination, she is thriving and hopes to become a doctor so she can care for others.
Carlos [sp] left a difficult childhood in Guatemala, made it to America all by himself. Then he took a second journey making it all the way to college where he is studying to become an engineer.
Janet’s [sp] secret weapon is her beautiful voice and her musical talent. Music has helped her overcome every obstacle that life has thrown in her path.
And Yusheval [sp] persevered through domestic violence at home and bullying at school and found her voice producing a student television show at school and now she has set her sights on becoming a journalist.
These fearless, generous, open-hearted, determined young people represent a rising generation that should give us all much hope for the future.
And they represent the continuing commitment of the Children’s Defense Fund and Marian Wright Edelman.

Now, I will admit coming here tonight wasn’t the easiest thing for me. There have been a few times this past week when all I wanted to do was just to curl up with a good book or our dogs and never leave the house again.
But if there’s anyone who knows how to pick yourself up and get back on your feet and get to work, it is Marian.
And she has been doing it all her life and she has been helping the rest of us do it too.
I am as inspired by Marian today as I was the first time I met her 45 years ago, and she told the story.
I was a young law student. I had lots of hopes and expectations about a law degree would enable me to do. I had the words of my Methodist faith ringing in my ears – do all the good you can for all the people you can in all the ways you can as long as ever you can.
And she was the crusading legal activist, also a graduate of Yale Law School. And she was translating her faith into a life devoted to children’s service and social justice.
Observing that, being part of that is one of the greatest gifts anyone has ever given me because I’ve often thought about Marian’s journey, about the stoney roads she walked, the bitter rods she endured, and how she never lost her faith and kept her eyes on the prize.
I think of her taking the bar exam in Mississippi – the first black woman ever to do so – and then opening offices for the NAACP and the Head Start Program for children who desperately needed it.
I think of her with Robert Kennedy in a tiny shack in the Delta opening his eyes to the realities of poverty in America.
I think of her with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. starting the poor people’s campaign and dreaming of an American of equality and opportunity.
You have to look at Marian’s life and ask, “How did she beat the odds when so many gave up the hopes of those early days?”
For Marian, it has always been about children and families. That’s what matters and that’s what has kept her going.
Helping to open public schools to children with disabilities in the 1970s – an effort I has honored to be part of.
Working to expand Medicaid in the 1980s to cover more pregnant women and more children in need.
Standing with me and others to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program, improve foster care, and create early Head Start.
Fighting in recent years to build a bipartisan movement to dismantle the school to prison pipeline and reform our criminal justice system, especially for juveniles.
And spending countless hours mentoring and training the next generation of leaders and activists at Haley Farm.
Under Marian’s leadership, the Children’s Defense Fund works to give every child a healthy start, a head start, a fair start, a safe start, and a moral start in life. And I cannot think of a more noble or necessary mission.
No matter what the setbacks, she has always believed in the words of Dr. King, often repeated by President Obama, “The arch of the moral universe is long but it bends toward justice.”
Now, sometimes it can feel awfully long. Believe me, I know. But I also know it does bend.

It bends towards justice because people like Marian and so many of you – and there are people in this audience I have had the privilege of working with and admiring for so many decades – you refused to stop pushing. And when you get knocked down, you get back up.
I often quote Marian when she says that “Service is the rent we pay for living.”
Well, you don’t get to stop paying rent just because things don’t go your way.
I know many of you are deeply disappointed about the results of the election. I am too, more than I can ever express.
But as I said last week, our campaign was never about one person or even one election. It was about the country we love and about building an America that is hopeful, inclusive, and big-hearted.
I didn’t get into public service to hold high office. 45 years ago, that would have seemed an absolute incredibly wrong-headed view.
But I did decide to be an activist, to use my law degree to help kids. Every child deserves to have the opportunity to live up to his or her God-given potential, and I believe the measure of any society is how we treat our children.
And as we move forward into a new – and in many ways, uncertain – future, I think that must be the test for America and for ourselves.
Despite the progress – and we have made progress under President Obama – more than 31 million children still live at or near poverty in America.
And I hoped to have had the opportunity to build on the progress that President Obama has made because I know that we are stronger together when we are lifting each other up.
And let’s be clear, when I talk about children in or near poverty, this isn’t someone else’s problem. These aren’t someone else’s children. This is America’s problem because they are America’s children.
Child poverty isn’t just an urban challenge or a black or Latino challenge, although children of color continue to suffer disproportionately from high rates of poverty.
But make no mistake, there are poor children of every race and ethnicity.
Three out of every 10 white children in America are at or near poverty. That is more than 11 million kids.
And when you add in 11 million Latino children, more than 6 million black children, 1.5 million Asian and American Indian children, nearly 2 million children of two or more races, the scope and scale of this challenge becomes clear.
Poor children live in every state, in every congressional district. So they deserve the attention and efforts of every one of our representatives and leaders.
And the measure of success must be how many children and families climb out of poverty and reach the middle class.
We know what works to support kids and give them opportunities to succeed.
Parents need good-paying jobs, affordable quality health care and child care, to have help balancing the demands of work and family.
Communities need investments that lift families up, not neglect that lets them fall further behind.
There are millions of children who will go to school tomorrow in classrooms with crumbling ceilings, empty book shelves, and walls covered with mold.

There are children in places like Flint, Michigan drinking water poisoned by lead.
And children all over our country face the daily danger of gun violence.
We have to ask ourselves, “What are we doing to give them the safe and healthy lives they deserve?”
There are also children who are afraid today, like the little girl I met in Nevada who started to cry when she told me how scared she was that her parents would be taken away from her and be deported.
No child should have to live with fear like that. No child should be afraid to go to school because they’re Latino or African-American or Muslim or because they have a disability.
We should protect our children and help them love themselves and love others.
So, there’s a lot of work to do. As long as any child in America lives in poverty, as long as any child in America lives in fear, as long as any child – not just here here but in the world – faces these challenges, there’s work to do.
Girls, as well as boys, in every country on every continent deserve that chance to fulfill their own potential.
And it is going to take all of us doing our part.
I wrote a book 20 years called “It Takes a Village” and a lot of people asked “What the heck do you mean by that?”
Well, I meant what CDF has represented and understood from the beginning. None of us can raise a family, build a business, heal a community or lift a country by ourselves. We have to do it together.
So I urge you – I urge you, please, don’t lose heart. Don’t give up on the values we share.
Look at the young people we are honoring tonight. If they can persevere, so must all of us.
And if Marian has taught us anything, it’s there are so many ways to make a difference.
Organizations like CDF have never been more important. Businesses, philanthropists, foundations, congregations of every faith have to step up too because there’s work to be done in every community, debates to be joined in city hall and state capitols.
And even if it may not seem like it right now, there is common ground to build on.
A lot of governors and legislatures and mayors are pioneering new ways to support parents and provide children with early learning in red states as well as blue states.
Many of our most important accomplishments for the well-being of children and families have come from both parties working together, like the Children’s Health Insurance Program.
You know, that could never have happened without Republican leaders. Now it covers 8 million kids.
And even in this presidential campaign, for the first time ever, a broad consensus emerged about the importance of affordable, quality child care and paid family leave.
So we have work to do. And for the sake of our children and our families and our country, I ask you to stay engaged. Stay engaged on every level. We need you. America needs you – your energy, your ambition, your talent. That’s how we get through this. That’s how we help to make our contributions to bend the arch of the moral universe toward justice.
I know this isn’t easy. I know that over the past week, a lot of people have asked themselves whether America is the country we thought it was.

The divisions laid bare by this election run deep.
But please listen to me when I say this. America is worth it. Our children are worth it. Believe in our country, fight for our values, and never ever give up.
Because over the past two years, I’ve met so many people who reaffirmed my faith in our country – all kinds of people. Young people starting businesses. People working in every way they could to make the world a better place. Police officers who put their lives on the line. Members of communities who work with the police to try to keep everybody safe. Immigrants who work so hard to become citizens. And so many people who work long hours caring for children and the elderly even when the pay is not enough to support their own families.
I met and had the chance to work and travel with mothers who lost children and turned around and started a movement for peace and justice.
A pastor in South Carolina who shared his Bible with me opened to First Corinthians. “Love never fails,” it tells us, and I believe that.
Way back when I was in college and I gave the commencement speech, I said to my classmates then that our goal should be to make what appears to be impossible possible.
Well, I may be older now, a mother and a grandmother. I’ve seen my share of ups and downs. But I still believe that we can make the impossible possible.
And I will hope that the stories of the young people we’re honoring tonight, Marian’s story, all that she’s achieved, the Children’s Defense Fund has often made the impossible possible.
And then finally, as some of you heard me say during the campaign, I draw hope and sustenance from another person who influenced my life and still does everyday – my mother.
I’ve talked about her difficult childhood. She was abandoned by her parents. When she was just 8-years-old, they put her on a train to California all by herself in charge of her little sister who was three years younger. She ended up in California where she was mistreated by her grandparents, ended up on her own working as a housemaid.
She beat the odds. She found a way to offer me the boundless love and support she never received herself.
I think about her everyday and sometimes I think about her on that train. I wish I could walk down the aisle and find the little wooden seats where she sat holding tight to her younger sister, all alone and terrified. She doesn’t yet know how much more she will have to face and even suffer. She doesn’t yet know she will find the strength to escape that suffering. That’s still years off. Her whole future’s unknown as it is for all of us as she stares out at the vast country moving past her.
And I dream of going up to her and sitting next to her and taking her in my arms and saying, “Look, look at me and listen. You will survive. You will have a family of your own. Three children. And as hard as it might be to imagine, your daughter will grow up to be a United States Senator, represent our country as Secretary of State, and win more than 62 million votes for president of the United States.”
Now, I can’t and you can’t go back in time and hug all those children that preceded us but we can do that now. We can reach out to make sure every child has a champion because I am as sure of this as anything I have ever known.
America is still the greatest country in the world. This is still the place where anyone can beat the odds. It’s up to each and every one of us to keep working to make America better and stronger and fairer.
Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the work of the Children’s Defense Fund.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
This is not exactly the speech at the Capitol I hoped to be giving after the election.
But after a few weeks of taking selfies in the woods, I thought it would be a good idea to come out. And I am very grateful to Harry for inviting me to be part of this celebration.
As we celebrate a great leader and a great senator and yes, a great American, I just want to pause for a moment and mark the passing of one of our great Americans as well. Sen. John Glenn, a friend to many of us and a genuine American hero, passed away today. And I know the tributes will be flowing. I’m sure the congressional record will be filled with pages of appreciation and recognition of this extraordinary American’s life.
It is fitting that we’re here in the Kennedy Caucus Room, which has seen so much history.
Harry got his start in politics organizing for JFK. Even then, he knew how to win.
My very first experience as an intern here on the Hill was helping with hearings right in this caucus room.
And it’s fitting that we would gather in a place that represents the values of this extraordinary deliberative body.
I want to thank Landra and the entire Reid family for sharing Harry with us all these years, and I’m delighted to be here with Vice President Biden, leaders McConnell and Pelosi, and my former partner from New York, Chuck Schumer, as well as so many other friends and former colleagues.
Today, we are hanging Harry’s portrait in the Capitol but the more fitting portrait of him will be the one that goes in the dictionary next to the word, fighter.
Throughout his career, Harry’s fought the good fight on behalf of the working families of Nevada and all Americans.
Harry welcomed me as a new senator more than 15 years ago, and over the years, he became both a trusted colleague as well as a friend.
One of my favorite memories, Harry, is going with you to Fallon, Nevada. We went to hold a hearing about the high rates of Leukemia in that small town.
We both shared a passion for health care and a worry about so-called cancer clusters. And on that trip and on many occasions, I saw firsthand Harry’s deep commitment to the state and country he loved and served so well.
No matter how high he rose here in Washington, he never lost touch with the people and values he grew up with back in Searchlight.
In the little house where he was born, there was an embroidered pillowcase with a quote from Franklin Roosevelt that embodied Harry’s life and career. “We can. We must. We will.”

I’ve walked in neighborhoods, sat in union halls, met workers in casino kitchens, and everywhere I went, Nevadans told me how much it meant to them to have Harry Reid as their cornerman.
We’ve seen the strength of that bond in election after election. I’ve benefitted from it and so have many Democrats.
Harry’s commitment to our country runs just as deep.
Throughout his career, he’s fought tirelessly to protect America’s public lands and natural beauty. From protecting the Great Basin National Park to restoring Lake Tahoe to leading the way on clean energy, Harry’s legacy is embodied in landmark legislation that made life better for American families.
Like the Affordable Care Act, which wouldn’t have passed without his leadership and now provides health coverage to more than 22 million people. Millions of young people can stay on their parents’ health plans because Harry Reid fought for it.
And that’s not all.
Millions of seniors rely on Social Security today because Harry led the fight to stop it from being privatized.
He fought to pass comprehensive immigration reform and got it through the Senate. If it had been signed into law, millions of families would not be living in fear of being torn apart and our economy would benefit from the millions of workers coming out of the shadows.
As a senator, I learned a lot from Harry about how actually to get things done in this place. He’s not a man of many words but when he uses them he always tells it as he sees it. He’s never afraid to speak out even when it’s not easy or popular.
Harry has fought for the simple but powerful idea that yes, we are all created equal. He understood that all of our leaders and all of our citizens alike have a responsibility to defend the rights of every single American.
After the Constitutional Convention, it’s well known Benjamin Franklin was asked what form of government the new nation would have. “A republic,” he replied, “if you can keep it.”
Well, that’s still our charge and it’s as urgent as it’s ever been. We must stand up for our democracy just as Harry has done his entire career.
Let me just mention briefly one threat in particular that should concern all Americans – Democrats and Republicans and Independents alike – especially those who serve in our Congress.
The epidemic of malicious fake news and false propaganda that flooded social media over the past year. It’s now clear that so-called fake news can have real world consequences. This isn’t about politics or partisanship. Lives are at risk. Lives of ordinary people just trying to go about their days to do their jobs, contribute to their communities.
It’s a danger that must be addressed and addressed quickly.
Bipartisan legislation is making its way through Congress to boost the government’s response to foreign propaganda. And Silicon Valley is starting to grapple with the challenge and threat of fake news.
It’s imperative that leaders in both the private sector and the public sector step up to protect our democracy and innocent lives.
Harry Reid and Vice President Biden may be stepping back from the daily scrum of politics and governing, but I know I speak for them as well as tens of millions of Americans when I say that we are all counting on those of you who remain.
Counting on you to defend this institution that all three of us love so much and the democratic values it embodies.
Counting on you to carry forward Harry Reid’s legacy to stand with working families and fight the good fight for a better, stronger, fairer America.
Harry, my friend, thank you for your service and your friendship. I can’t help but think of that wonderful song “The Boxer”.
“You left your home and your family when you were no more than a boy. Now, in the clearing stands a boxer, a fighter by his trade. You carry the reminders of every glove you faced. But even more, we carry the reminders of every fight you waged for us.
And we will never ever forget.
I wish you and your family all the happiness in the world. You have earned it.
Thank you, my friend.
