
…It’s also essential that we strengthen families and communities, and that means we have to finally once and for all fix our immigration system.
This is a family issue. It’s an economic issue too. But it is at heart a family issue.
And if we claim that we are for families, we have to pull together and resolve the outstanding issues around our broken immigration system.
The American people support comprehensive immigration reform not just because it’s the right thing to do – and it is – but because they know it strengthens families, strengthens our economy, and strengthens our country.
That’s why we can’t wait any longer. We can’t wait any longer for a path to full and equal citizenship.
Now this is where I differ with everybody on the Republican side.
Make no mistakes. Today, not a single Republican candidate announced or potential is clearly and consistently supporting a path to citizenship. Not one.
When they talk about legal status, that is code for second-class status.
And we should never forget who this debate is about and you’re going to meet some of them in just a minute – people who work hard, who love this country, who pay taxes to it, and want nothing more than to build a good future for themselves and their children.
We’re talking about the young people at this table. They are Dreamers, and much more than the name, they are kids that any parent or grandparent would be proud of.
And I don’t understand how anyone can look at these young people and think we should break up more families or turn away more hard workers with talent to help us build the kind of country we all want to see.
So I will fight for comprehensive immigration reform and a path to citizenship for you and for your families across our country.
I will fight to stop partisan attacks on the executive actions that would put Dreamers, including those with us today, at risk of deportation.
And if Congress continues to refuse to act, as President, I would do everything possible under the law to go even further.
There are more people – like many parents of Dreamers and others – with deep ties and contributions to our communities who deserve a chance to stay and I will fight for them.
The law currently allows for sympathetic cases to be reviewed but right now most of these cases have no way to get a real hearing. Therefore, we should put in place a simple, straightforward accessible way for parents of Dreamers and others with a history of service and contribution to their communities to make their case and to be eligible for the same deferred action as their children.
But that’s just the beginning. There’s much more to do to expand and enhance protections for families and communities, to reform immigration enforcement and detention practices so they’re more humane, more targeted, and more effective, and to keep building the pressure and support for comprehensive reform.
You know, on a personal basis, the first time I ever met anyone who was in our country working was when I was about 12-years-old as I recall. And through my church, I was recruited along with some of the girls in our Sunday school class to serve as babysitters on Saturday for the small children so that the older children can join their parents in the fields because believe it or not when I was growing up in the Chicago area it was farm fields as far as the eye could see and the migrant immigrant labor would come up through Texas, up through the Midwest, up through Chicago, then up to Michigan. And we were asked to try to help out.
And I remember going out to the camp where the families lived and taking care of the little kids while kids my age were out doing really hard work.
And what stuck in my mind was how at the end of the day, there was a long road from the camp that went out to a dirt road in the middle of the field and the bus that had the workers from the field on it that came back in around 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. in the afternoon stopped and let off the parents and the older brothers and sisters and these little kids started running down that path to see their moms and their dads and their big brothers and sisters. And they were all scooped up by these really, really, really tired people.
And I just watched this and I thought, “They’re just like me and my brothers”, you know, when my dad comes home from work and we go out there to see him after he’s come back from his day of doing what he has to do to help support us. I’ve never gotten that experience or that image out of my mind.
And for me, this is about what kind of people we all are and what kind of country we have.
And I am absolutely convinced this is in our economic interest, it’s in the interests of our values, and it’s even in the interests of our long-term security as a nation.
So you know where I stand and there can be no question about it because I will do everything I can as President and during this campaign to make this case.
I know there are people who disagree with me but I want them to have a conversation with me because the facts are really clear.
You know, we know how much people who are working hard contribute to our economy both in what they buy and in what they pay in taxes.
In fact in New York, which I know a little bit about because I represented it for eight years and I live there now, our undocumented workers in New York pay more in taxes than some of the biggest corporations in New York.
So I’m ready to have this discussion with anybody, anywhere, anytime…
…I think it’s so important that we continue to try to change the laws comprehensively. But as I have said numerous times, I support the President’s actions in the face of – I was personally very disappointed that when I was a Senator for eight years we had a few chances to try to do more for Dreamers, do more for comprehensive immigration reform, and we were not successful.
And then when I was Secretary of State, I was very pleased that there was a bipartisan agreement in the Senate for comprehensive immigration reform. And it was such a good signal that Democrats and Republicans could work together, could solve a difficult problem, could put aside partisan differences.
The Senate passed it and the House of Representatives would never take it up. And I think it would have passed if they had taken it up. But I think that the leadership in the House decided that politically they didn’t want to do that because they have people who are strongly opposed to comprehensive immigration reform.
But I think we just have to keep working on it, and that’s why your stories are so important because we can’t look at it as though it’s some kind of abstraction. It’s real people’s lives and so many people who have made contributions, who have worked hard in school, who have started businesses, who have raised their children here.
And as you point out in your family, you have a brother who’s a U.S. citizen. So we have a lot of these blended families and I want to do more to make sure that DACA and DAPA and all of the change that have occurred continue and even expand. I would like to try to do more on behalf of the parents of Dreamers who are not necessarily included.
But the best way is to get to comprehensive immigration reform in our Congress and try to resolve all of this.
…I think your example illustrates the difficulties of these rules that are applied to everybody under every circumstance without looking at the underlying situation.
And you have a sister who’s a citizen, you have a father who’s now a legal permanent resident. You came here at seven months and you have done extremely well with your education and you’re obviously a very committed young person. And your mother who kept the family going as moms do would have to leave for a three to 10 year period in order to be able to petition for re-entry and therefore be determined as legal.
That’s why I have promoted ever since we’ve been having this debate going back when I was in the Senate a comprehensive immigration reform program similar to what the Senate passed on a bipartisan basis where the people who’ve been here and the people who have as your family has contributed and worked hard, you have to pay a fine. We want you to learn English, which is not a problem for anyone around this table. And we would want you to get in line to get a path to citizenship. But you would be no longer at risk of getting deported and you wouldn’t have to leave the country for three to 10 years in order to be able then to try to come back in.
So I think there – there’s agreement among the people who supported the bipartisan bill in the Senate even though some of them are paying a political price for it right now, nevertheless, it was the right thing when they did it. It’s still the right thing.
Because we have gained so much from people who like your families have come here and worked hard and made a contribution.
…It shows how difficult it is in so many families to be able to figure out what to do.
I think that reunification should be one of our goals in comprehensive immigration reform because you know we have attempted to deal with this challenge for years now and in the absence of actually finally passing comprehensive immigration reform a lot of families have been broken up.
And that’s just really so painful for people who live through it but even for those of us on the outside looking at it to even imagine what that must be like.
And that’s why I want to do everything we can to defend the President’s executive orders because I think they were certainly within his authority constitutionally. Legally, they were based on precedent that I certainly believe is adequate.
And then still try to go further and deal with some of these other issues like the reunification of families that were here and that have been split up since the last 8, 10, 12 years.
Well, it will certainly be among my first initiatives. I can’t sitting here today predict what will be happening.
I know that happened to President Obama when he was elected and found out we were falling into an economic abyss. And I think he deserves a lot of credit for restabilizing our situation and getting us back on the economic upswing.
But among the priorities that I would be advocating for in the beginning would be comprehensive immigration reform.
And one of the reasons for that – in addition to everything we’ve discussed – is as Secretary of State, I saw what happens to countries that establish a second-class status for people. They do not feel that they belong or that they have any allegiance to the country in which they live and work because they’re never fully accepted.
That is a recipe for divisiveness and even for disintegration.
And therefore, my view strongly is that we are a nation of immigrants, we’ve assimilated tens and tens of millions of people over the course of our history.
We have 11, 12 million people right now who are undocumented, the vast majority of whom have proven that they want to be a citizen of this country and we should put them on that path.
And those who say, “Oh yeah, we can do reform but not a path to citizenship” would be fundamentally undermining what has made America unique – the way we have assimilated people, the way people who come here feel so loyal, the contributions they make.
So this is not just in my view the right thing to do for America.
If you compare us to other countries that did not take that step, you can see what it’s done to them, and I don’t want to go there. So I very firmly support a path to citizenship in the context of immigration reform.
…I think it’s very short-sighted of us not to legalize students who graduate from college and can use their skills to make a good life for themselves but also to give back.
We have thousands and thousands of foreign students come to our country every year, and they get a great education in our colleges and universities, and then a lot of them stay.
Well, I want you to be a doctor if that’s what you want to be. I mean, you’ve come up through our system. You’ve worked hard. I mean, you’ve done exceptionally well.
So I think this is a particular fix – in addition to all the other fixes that we’ve been talking about.
You know, I read an article recently about a group of young undocumented men who were really interested in technology and they entered a contest against kids from the best schools and companies and they won.
And so you have four kids who beat the best of the best and they couldn’t do anything because they were undocumented.
And I’m sitting there thinking, “What is wrong with this picture?”
We are in a global competition and I intend for us to win in, and I’m not about to let anybody who can make a contribution to our economy and our society get thrown away.
So from my perspective, we need to fix that, we need to remove the fear, and we need to make sure that we give every child a chance to do the best that he or she can…
I want to reiterate my strong support for the President’s executive actions because he had to act in the face of inaction that was not on the merits but politically motivated for partisan reasons, which I think is not the way we should be solving our problems in our country, in our Congress or anywhere else…
And I want to get back to good old problem-solving, and this is one of the problems we have to solve together. So I pledge to you I will do everything I possibly can to make this an issue in the campaign but more importantly when I’m President to put it on the top of my priority list…
