…I know as you said this was not easy to do but thank you.
I want more people to hear stories like so that this is not just some political debate about something happening far away but people can really begin to think about standing in the shoes of those who have been victims of gun violence and trying to understand what we can all do together.
You know, Clay [sp] survived this brutal hateful attack in her own home. 90 people a day don’t survive because of guns. 33,000 people a year die by homicide, suicide or by accidents using firearms.
And I think we’re better than that as a nation. And I think we can do something about that. And that’s why I have been talking about it, have been laying out my policies toward it.
Some people say that we shouldn’t talk about it. Some say we shouldn’t shout about it. That I shouldn’t shout about it.
Well, I think we keep talking but more importantly we have to act. And we have to be willing to take on those who are not in favor of sensible gun safety measures. That includes the NRA and it includes a lot of people in public life who are intimidated.
I think that’s no longer feasible. It’s no longer right.
So what I have said is “Yes, as President, I will push and achieve universal background check” – something that the majority of Americans support and the majority of gun owners support. Sensible, responsible gun owners support it.
You know, the Brady Bill has kept 2 million guns from being sold into the wrong hands. Because of that background check, despite its loopholes, prohibited purchasers because they were felons, fugitives, stalkers, domestic abusers, people with serious illness have been stopped from buying a gun.
So as bad as the gun carnage is, I’d like to think that at least 2 million prohibited purchasers weren’t part of that.
I also think it’s critically important to close those loopholes, to close the gun show loophole and the online loophole.
You know, back when the Brady Bill was passed in ’94 online purchases were not an issue; we now know they are.
So we have to go for universal background checks and we have to close those two loopholes.
And I have said that if the Congress doesn’t cooperate, I would use executive action to make sure that sellers are held accountable.
I also believe we should close what is now being called the “Charleston loophole”.
Under the background checks if someone applies to buy a gun, the seller has three days – those sellers that are covered – to conduct a background check. And if it is not completed by the end of three days, the purchaser gets to buy the gun anyway.
Now, the reason it’s called the Charleston loophole is that the killer of those nine people at Bible Study in Mother Emanuel Church in Charleston got his gun not because he was eligible, because in fact it was learned shortly after he was not eligible; he had a felony record. But because of this loophole, he was able to go back at the end of three days and buy the gun he used to kill those nine innocent people.
And then finally, we have to repeal the broad immunity that has been given to gun manufacturers and sellers in America, which has shielded them from any responsibility for their sale of guns and ammunition or their manufacture of either.
Now, just recently, there was some small glimmer of hope when a jury in Wisconsin found a seller of guns liable because of a straw purchase, which the seller clearly knew to be a straw purchase. A straw purchase is you’re not eligible, you’re a felon, you’ve got a domestic abuse order against you, you’ve been committed. Remember, the shooter at Virginia Tech had been committed for outpatient treatment for mental health; still got a gun. But in this particular case in Wisconsin, the prohibited purchaser sent somebody else in with a clean record to buy the gun for him. There’s video and other evidence that the seller knew that the gun was for somebody else. Sold it anyway. So the seller [sic] buys it, turns it over to the real purchaser, who goes out and shoots two police officers, injuring both seriously.
And so when the police officers sued the gun seller, the jury heard the evidence and came in with a verdict in favor of the police officers.
Now, we’re going to see whether or not that verdict stands up under this broad immunity that has been given to the industry.
There’s really no other industry in America that has this kind of blanket permission to be reckless, to be negligent, to sell defective products even.
It’s just outrageous, and we have to repeal that so that those who manufacture guns and sell them are held to some standard of accountability.
So I’m going to do everything I can in this campaign to not only talk about this issue and to give the platform to people like Clay, who can be much more eloquent than I ever can about why this is an important issue.
But I’m also appealing to responsible gun owners: Organize an alternative to the NRA, which is nothing but a lobby for the most absolutist positions that the gun manufacturers and sellers demand.
We have so many responsible gun owners.
I’m not against guns. My dad taught me to shoot when I was a little girl. I’ve even gone duck hunting in Arkansas – standing in the cold water at sunrise. Once was enough getting up that early to stand in that cold water, I could tell you that much.
So this is not about the kind of scare tactics that you will hear from the NRA. You know, this is what they do. They just scare responsible folks into thinking that you know the black helicopter is going to land in the front yard and somebody is going to show up and take your guns. That is nonsense, and it needs to be called out for what it is.
But the fight against the NRA should be led by a new organization of gun owners.
I’m collecting names of people who are stepping up and writing about their feelings as people who enjoy hunting, enjoy target shooting, enjoy collecting but who are sick and tired of the violence, people who are killed and injured.
So I am very grateful to my good friend, your Senator Molly Kelly, and I am very grateful to Clay for sharing what is a very painful personal story to try to save lives.
And I really look forward to working with a groundswell of people across our country who know we can do better than this. We are better than this.
So with that, let me throw this open to questions on whatever issues or concerns you might have…
Question on the NSA and Edward Snowden:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, let me say this. I firmly believe that he could have gone public and released the information about the collection of information on Americans under whistleblower protection, and he could have done it within the tradition in our country that shields people who come forth acting out of conscience to present information that they believe the public should have.
I do not know why in addition to releasing the information that you’re referring to, he felt compelled to steal a lot of information that by any definition had nothing to do with Americans’ civil rights, liberties, and privacy, but instead were about terrorists and what other nations – just to name two, China and Russia – do to try to gather information about us and what our government tries to do to prevent that and to try to get information about them.
So if he’d been a whistleblower and if he had confined himself to releasing information that I think did provoke the right kind of discussion in our country and has led to some changes, which I approve of, then I think people could across all spectrum say “Hey, thank you for bringing this to our attention and thank you for giving us the opportunity to respond.”
Because he took valuable information and went first to China and then is now under the protection of Vladimir Putin, I think that raises a lot of questions about everything else he did.
So I do not think he should escape having to return and answer for what he has done.
And I think we need to continue the balance on civil liberties, privacy and security. It’s always a challenge. And I do support what the Congress passed – the USA Freedom Act – because it did have some good changes and I think we have to remain vigilant.
But it’s always a balance. It’s a balance. It’s not just all one-sided. You know, if you go too far toward security, you do infringe upon the legitimate rights of Americans and that’s what we’re trying to end. If you go too far toward privacy and you know civil liberties, you can leave us vulnerable, and we’re trying to prevent that too.
So that’s the kind of hard choice balancing act that I think President Obama has been attempting to do and I support the changes that he has been making from the executive level and I support the new legislation that the Congress passed.
Question on the need for a culture of gun safety:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I agree with you on that. And I like to refer to what I’m advocating as gun safety measures.
And the gentleman makes a very good point. You know, like so many of you, I’m reading news online and I see a headline – I think it was in the Washington Post – which said something as I recall “Toddlers are killing more people with guns”. And I stopped. I went, “What? Why?”
Because the people whose homes they live in – mostly their parents, sometimes their grandparents – have loaded guns in their homes, in their cars, and children are curious and they’re picking up loaded guns.
And I read this story after I was shocked by the headline – the toddler in the backseat where there was also a loaded gun picking it and looking at it and shooting his grandmother.
It’s just beyond my comprehension.
And the gentleman is absolutely right. If you are going to have a gun, please, please exercise common sense safety and keep those guns away from children, toddlers, young kids, and teach a proper respect for guns.
One of the worst cases that I read about in the last two weeks was an 11-year-old boy asked to see the new puppy of the 8-year-old girl who live near him. And the little girl for whatever reason said “No”, she didn’t want him to see her puppy. He went home. He got his father’s loaded shotgun. He went back and he killed her.
So all I’m asking and it’s pretty common sense. We need new legislation to close the loopholes, to remove the immunity from liability, to use technology to get instant background checks for real, not just saying it. But ultimately, people have to exercise common sense in dealing with these weapons and keeping them away from children should be rule number one in my opinion.
Question on shale oil extraction and fracking:
Hillary Clinton:
It’s a great question and it’s one I give the Obama administration a lot of credit over the last two years in particular they have been – yes, let’s give the Obama administration a lot of credit for their energy and climate change policy.
And they’ve been struggling with this and they’ve begun to come out with recommended regulations. Like for example to control methane emissions.
I think you also have to have very tough water standards.
And I think from talking to experts in the Obama administration and on the outside, here is what they have convinced me of and this is the following.
There are some places in our country where this extraction technique may be appropriate if we do more research and we figure out how to cut the methane emissions and keep the water clean. There are a lot of other places where it is not.
And part of what the federal government needs to start doing is drawing some lines and informing states and localities.
And we should also never preempt states and localities from saying no. If a local government says no, not here, they should be able to do that.
And part of the reason why I think the Obama administration experts have taken this position is we have to go through a transition. We have to move away from fossil fuels including gas but that gas can be a useful bridge, especially as we move away from coal and we move away from dirtier oil and some of the really bad alternatives.
And we want to keep more fossil fuels under the ocean and in the ground. That’s why I’m agains Arctic drilling and why I’m against offshore drilling because I don’t think we should start that.
So, I’m trying to listen to people who I know care a lot about the environment, care a lot about climate change, and are trying to figure out what are the smart steps we can take.
So in some instances, I can go along with it, and in lots of others, I can’t. And we need to be moving as quickly as possible to 100% clean, renewable energy. We have a long way to go. But that should be our goal. And we should do nothing that interferes with it or undermines our efforts to reach that goal as soon as it is possible.
Hillary Clinton:
…I didn’t really focus on this until I’ve been traveling around New Hampshire and the concerns that residents have expressed about FERC really are legitimate because the process that FERC is employing does not give enough weight to public opinion in the locations where the pipelines are going through.
It does not pay in my opinion enough attention to all of the other issues, whether they be health issues, safety issues and the like.
So I am going to do what I can to try to make it absolutely the case that FERC has to – in any of these decisions – pay much more attention to local communities and listen to what your concerns are and do much more to evaluate whatever the consequences or the downsides of these decisions are.
Because right now their mandate seems to be only about delivery of energy at anywhere, anytime. And I don’t think that’s adequate in today’s world.
If we’re going to have a climate – [inaudible] – let’s not confuse the two issues. When you say supported, they’re not paid for by oil and gas. They are certainly as a regulator for oil and gas used to paying attention to what oil and gas industry says. I will absolutely give you that.
See, my problem though now that people…have raised this with me is that if we’re going to have a national commitment to do something about climate change, FERC needs to be part of that national commitment. And that’s my view on how we have to alter a lot of parts of the federal government.
You know, it’s not just the EPA that needs to be focused on combatting climate change. Every part of the federal government needs to be focused. Because I want to have a national goal.
And I’ve said I want to have by the end of my first term a half a billion more solar panels installed. And by the end of my second term, enough clean renewable energy to power every home in America.
And if those are our goals, then it’s really important that we don’t have the right hand doing something different than the left hand, in the old saying.
So it would be my intention to if legislative changes, regulatory changes are necessary to undertake those but also to appoint people who will be really focused on how everybody works toward this big overarching national goal and not kind of have old-think.
You know, there was a time when we needed more energy. People remember – some of us are able to remember being in very long gas lines. At least, I remember those days. And we were pretty much captive to Middle East oil. So we had a different mindset.
But now we’ve got to change that. So I think your question is not only a specific one about a particular decision but it raises a larger issue about what we’re going to do to change our values, our goals, and that’s what I’m going to try to do.
Question on student debt:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, let me ask how many people in this room currently have student debt? Wow… How many have ever had student debt? That’s a pretty healthy majority here.
That’s a great question, and your statistics are right. We have 40 million people with student debt that now reaches $1.2 trillion.
So, the first and most important thing is we need to make it possible for every person with student debt – current and those who have graduated – refinance that debt. You know, that to me is the number one goal.
And if you think about it, everyone else can refinance their debt. Corporations can refinance their debt. You can refinance your mortgage. You can refinance your car payment. Why is it students can’t refinance their debt?
And the worst injustice to me is that we’ve had practically zero interest rates for seven years.
And yet, I want to ask how many of you know that you are paying an interest rate of at least 7%? Yeah. I mean, we have people who are paying interest rates far beyond what the real interest rates are. So I want everybody to be able to refinance.
And then I want to do much more to get both students and graduates into income contingency repayment plans. What is that?
Well, this is what I had when I went to law school. So did my husband. You know, we both borrowed money. We worked. We borrowed money. And in the loans we had, when we graduated we both were teachers. We taught at the University of Arkansas Law School. My first job was with the Children’s Defense Fund and then with the University of Arkansas. As I recall, making like $14,000 – between $14,000 and $17,000 a year.
And we couldn’t have paid some big fixed rate based on a high interest rate. So we paid back as a percentage of our income on a monthly basis, and as I recall it was 10% and it took – I don’t know – 15 years. But it didn’t have the burden that I now hear about from so many young people and their families because of the high fixed rates.
And the other thing I really like to do more of is to make sure that people who go into what our public service, national service jobs get a lower rate, get more forgiveness faster, get a discount because they are doing something that serves their community.
And then to have a date certain when your obligations end. If you’ve been a responsible payer and you’ve taken advantage of all the new opportunities that I want to provide, there will be an end point and you can count on that.
So this is a big deal to me because too many people are being held back because of this debt and you say $32,000 – I think that’s one of the highest averages in the country students in New Hampshire are bearing. So it’s a big problem for everybody but particularly students here.
And I’ve met a lot of them who because of their student debt can’t take jobs they’d like to take because they can’t afford them.
I met a young woman who said she had a dream job of her life in Boston but she couldn’t afford to pay her student debt and live there so like so many young people today she’s still living with her parents. And that’s nice but you know you deserve a chance to get out there and make your own decisions about where you’re going to live and where you’re going to work and all the rest of it.
So that’s what I want to do and I will make that a very high priority.
Questions on human trafficking and empowering youth of America:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, with respect to your first question on human trafficking, I feel passionately about this and have worked on this issue since my days as First Lady.
In fact, back in 2000, I worked with a coalition of outside activists and members of Congress to pass the first ever United States legislation against human trafficking. Proud to say my husband signed it so that began our efforts on human trafficking.
And I stayed focused on that as Senator and then as Secretary of State worked really hard to do more about human trafficking around the world and still here at home.
We appointed a first rate federal prosecutor who had prosecuted some of the human trafficking cases in the United States to head the office in the State Department to take on these issues.
And we also pressured through the human trafficking annual study different countries to have to change their laws, to enforce their laws.
When I as First Lady talked to representatives of other countries, they really didn’t understand why the United States was making a big deal out of this because it was part of in their view the culture. Now, they know they’re going to be graded every year by the United States government and that if they are having a failing grade several years in a row, they can lose aid and benefits from the United States government. And it’s our tool to try to get laws passed, to change enforcement, and actually to go after human trafficking.
It remains one of the biggest sources of criminal activity and profits in the world.
Sometimes we think of only one or two kinds of human trafficking. You know, the refugees flooding into Europe are in many respects a form of human trafficking. They’re picked up by smugglers who often abandon them. The children and adults who come across our southern border are often treated the same way. You know, their families paid money to smugglers and traffickers who again may abandon them, may abandon them in the desert, may abandon to their fate on the long journey that they are taking.
We have a lot of trafficking of people into really exploitative labor situations. Literally, people being kidnapped and put on fishing boats, being chained to sewing machines and factories.
And then of course, we have sex trafficking where young women in particular but even children are preyed upon and where poor families are convinced to essentially sell their daughters.
I remember being in northern Thailand when I was First Lady and it was before we passed our trafficking statute and part of the reason I was there was to talk with the government to convince them to take this seriously. And I went to a hospice for young women who were the victims of AIDS after having been trafficked into the brothels in Bangkok and then when they were ill thrown literally on the street. Some of them would make their way back to their homes; their families who’ve been paid for them would reject them. And I remember standing by the wheelchair of a dying 12-year-old girl and having the aid workers who were taking care of her tell me her story and then the aid worker says, “You can tell the families that have sold their daughters by driving around these villages – the huts, the houses with satellites have sold their daughters.”
And so this is such a deep part of discrimination against women and girls, a rejection of their importance, their human dignity, their rights, that it is a deep challenge to change attitudes in many parts of the world about the value of girls and to make the case that educating a girl over the long run will be far better for the family than selling her at the age of 11 or 12 to be either an indentured servant or a sex worker.
So this is an area that is particularly a concern of mine because it goes hand-in-hand with the exploitation of poor people, marginalized people, and particularly girls and women in many places across the country.
Thank you.
Question on whether the United States should follow the example of Australia’s buyback of handguns:
Hillary Clinton:
You know, Australia is a good example. Canada is a good example. The UK is a good example.
Why? Because of them had mass killings.
Australia had a huge mass killing about 20, 25 years ago. Canada did as well. So did the UK.
And in reaction, they passed much stricter gun laws.
In the Australian example, as I recall, that was a buyback program. The Australian government as part of trying to clamp down on the availability of automatic weapons offered a good price for buying hundreds of thousands of guns and then they basically clamped down going forward in terms of having more of a background check approach, more of a permitting approach. But they believed – and I think the evidence supports them – that by offering to buy back those guns they were able to curtail the supply and to set a different standard for gun purchases in the future.
Now, communities have done that in our country. Several communities have done gun buyback programs. But I think it would be worth considering doing it on the national level if that could be arranged.
Remember, I know after the terrible ’08 financial crisis, I think one of the programs that President Obama was able to get in place was cash for clunkers. Remember that? You know, getting them off the road. It was partly a way to get people to buy new cars because we wanted a more economic activity, and it was partly a way to get old models that were polluting too much off the road.
So I think that’s worth considering.
I don’t know enough details to tell you how we would do it or how it would work. But certainly the Australian example is worth looking at. Thank you for raising that.
Question on education reform:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I’m glad you’re going to be a teacher.
And I have say Keene State has a well-deserved reputation for turning out educators. And I want to really applaud Keene State faculty and students.
Well, I could talk about this a long time but I’ll try to be more focused.
First of all, I think we have to do more to actually pay attention to what educators tell us about what will work in the classroom.
And that sounds so obvious that some of you are probably wondering “Why would you say something so obvious?”
Well, because we’ve been having a very vigorous debate, a contentious debate, over what will work and what won’t work to try to increase educational achievement among our young people.
And I think the debate has gotten off base. I think it’s too much about the latest fads, the latest products, the latest models, instead of taking a deep breadth and actually talking to experts who have done an enormous amount of research about what really works. I want to get back to looking at what really works.
And I know that there are a lot of well-meaning people who are really down on the public schools, and I just don’t believe or share that. I think that public schools are one of the bedrock institutions of our democracy and therefore we need to do more to make them work.
And so here are a couple of observations because this is a much longer conversation. And I must say I am honored to have the support of the teachers of New Hampshire and America in my campaign and because of that I want to be a partner in figuring out what are the best ways forward to do a better job helping kids, particularly poor kids, particularly kids with special needs, particularly kids who come into school from literally the first day of kindergarten not as prepared as their classmates are to be successful.
So I start with early childhood education and universal pre-kindergarten. That’s where I start.
And I think it’s a grave disservice to ignore the fact that the first five years of life set up a child, set up the vocabulary of that child. We now know from brain research even influences the brain in ways that will make it easier or less so in learning.
The brain research tells us that 80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of 3. So what happens in those three years and then those first 5 years before you even go to a formal classroom really depends on the family and the community and what kinds of support families can be given.
I am a strong believer in early education, particularly for kids that have various kinds of disadvantages.
And I’ll just tell you a quick story. When Bill was governor of Arkansas, one of our problems, it was you know the second poorest state in America. And our teachers were the second poorest paid in America. And a lot of our families had really serious economic challenges.
And so when you’re thinking about “Okay, what do you do to try to improve the schools?” We tackled standards. We raised teacher pay. We did a lot that needed to be done that was overdue.
But we also looked at this problem about what happens when kids show up that first day. And as a result, I began looking all over to try to find an affordable program that could help more low-income kids be better prepared. Because a lot of the programs that are the real state of the art are expensive. Now, I would love for our country invest in them because you actually save money at the end of it. That’s been proven over and over again.
But being realistic we’ve got to find everything we can do and try to make it affordable.
So this was so serendipitous. I was in Florida with Bill. We were attending some meeting he had and I was just literally in the hotel room flipping through the paper and I saw a picture of a professor from Israel who was giving a lecture about a program that he had started there. And I read about it and it was fascinating because it basically said that after a big influx of immigrants from poor nations like Ethiopia, the kids would go to the excellent Israeli schools but they weren’t achieving. And so the Israeli researchers at Hebrew University were saying “Wait. What’s going on here? They’re in the schools. If the schools were the only answer, why aren’t they doing better?” And then they realized they had to work in the family in those first five years.
So I called this woman…and I asked her if she were coming to the United States because I would like to meet with her to figure out whether what they did in Israel was transferrable to a place like Arkansas. She came.
And we began what’s called the Home Instruction Program for Pre-School Youngsters. And basically the idea behind it was to help the mother become the child’s first teacher, to feel confident and competent enough to try to prepare her own child to learn, doing very simple things like talking to her baby.
A lot of low-income mothers, when I started doing this back in the ‘80s, I said, “I bet you’re loving talking to your baby.” And they’d say, “Well, why would I talk to her? She can’t talk back.” Not because she didn’t love her baby but because she had no idea that’s how you build brain cells and synapses and vocabulary.
So fast forward. This program has now been going on across the country for 25 years and it has a great track record.
So we can do more in the homes helping parents be their child’s first teachers. But we still need universal pre-kindergarten so that every child can get that level of preparation so that when they go to that first day of kindergarten they have a fighting chance to be successful.
So there’s a lot I want to do. But I’ll end there by saying that I am really looking forward to working with the teachers and parents of America to make our education system everything it should be.
Question on substance abuse epidemic:
Hillary Clinton:
…You are the third grandmother that I have personally met in New Hampshire in the last several months who’s raising a grandchild because of drugs.
We did have an incredible town hall here…600, 700 people, most of them really affected in some way or another by this terrible epidemic of addiction and in particular here in New Hampshire and next door in Vermont, heroin. And the heroin epidemic, which is killing so many young people, and leaving grieving and broken families behind.
I don’t think I would have been talking about this issue had I not spent several months listening to people.
And in Iowa on my first trip in this campaign and then in New Hampshire in Keene on my first trip…I heard about the heroin epidemic and so I began looking into it and I know that everywhere I went somebody raised it with me – sometimes publicly, sometimes afterwards privately.
So that’s why I have a comprehensive agenda to try to begin to reverse this tide of addiction.
It includes better preventive efforts. It includes more treatment, something that we just don’t have enough of. If you do have somebody and you persuade them to seek treatment only 1 in 10 will get it in a timely way because we don’t have enough of it.
We also are seeing real progress. In Laconia, I had a meeting about this issue and I was so impressed by the police chief who has changed the whole way he polices drug abuse and drug offenses. Instead of sending people to jail, they’re trying to get people into treatment. They’re trying to match them with some kind of mentor from the recovery community. And they’re now equipped with the antidote to reverse heroin overdoses – naloxone – known as Narcan.
So we have to change the way we police. We need far more drug courts. Drug courts are so much more cost-effective than prison. We send a lot of people to prison for minor drug offenses. They come out full-blown addicts.
We just are going at this I think backwards.
So I am making this an issue because I really believe it’s a public health issue. As I talked about two weeks ago up in Boston with the Attorney General and the Mayor – Mayor Walsh is a recovering alcoholic and very willing to talk about it because he knows that if someone like him in that kind of position doesn’t talk about it then how will people know that there is something people can do, some path forward.
But for me, it’s really about the lives that are affected and all those who are trying to help their loved ones or trying to cope with the fact that they can’t help or that that person is no longer around.
So I appreciate you very much for raising this because we’re going to keep talking about it. We’re going to try to do more about it.
Thank you.
Question on genetically modified crops (GMO):
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I strongly support what the Department of Agriculture is now doing, which is to work toward voluntary labeling as a first step and to have more information for consumers so that on barcodes or labels people can actually know what’s in what they’re buying. I think that has to be the first step.
The second step that I support that the Department of Agriculture is doing is preventing the proponents of GMOs from stopping states from setting higher standards because I believe that in an area as you rightly say we need more research and consumers need better information based on the research we currently have, that it would be a terrible mistake for the industry to be able to use their influence in Congress to stop states from doing exactly as you said looking into it, finding out more about it.
And I want more research too because I think you’re right, there are some forms of this that are lifesavers. You know, drought resistant crops are often genetically modified and we don’t want to deprive people in drought conditions from being able to grow crops that they then can use unless there is evidence, research that show they shouldn’t do it.
But on the other hand, we need an ongoing system of doing much more to check out all the chemicals and genetic changes.
And it’s not just GMO I’m worried about. We have hundreds, if not thousands, of chemicals that we have never tested to determine what their real impact is or in concert with other elements or other chemicals.
So I’m a huge believer in safety and in the right to know, and I think we are not doing enough on either of those counts.
So right now, that’s where I stand on it. I am not in any way pro just forward no questions asked. I think that’s not smart.
But I’m also not anti-no questions asked, there’s no possible use for these kinds of altered crops, which we’ve been eating, as you know, for hundreds of years in different forms. It’s just much more sophisticated now.
But I am very much in favor of making sure it’s labeled, making sure that no state or local community is stopped from doing what it thinks is right and much more money by independent sources in looking at the impacts so we have that better information in the first place.
Question on genocide and mass atrocity prevention:
Hillary Clinton:
…We’ve got to have educated young people and others like you who are equipped to help us deal with a lot of these issues because unfortunately we are living with them and we have to come up with a better response.
I was privileged to announce the Atrocities Prevention Board when it was first set up in the Obama administration. And I did it at the Holocaust Museum in Washington. If any of you have been there, it was the most appropriate perfect place to make that announcement.
And I will certainly not only continue it but look for ways its visibility can become higher so that more people know that the United States has this board and that we will work to find ways to try to bring people together around some common responses to the potential for genocide, learning from the past.
And there are so many both kind of theoretical and practical aspects to this that deserve a lot of thought.
For example, we know that oftentimes in conflicts ethnic religious, tribal, other leaders of groups actually set these genocides or ethnic cleansing in motion.
They use the media. We saw that in Bosnia where people who had lived together peacefully for a very long time were set against each other through a propaganda effort on the media that turned neighbor against neighbor and even split families.
So we have to understand quickly if something like that is happening what are the best ways to try to combat it.
We saw the same things in Rwanda. We have seen the same thing in the Central African Republic between Christians and Muslims and their political battles.
So we have to not only condemn this and speak out against the horrible effects of the Holocaust, of genocide, of atrocities, but we have to really analyze it. And that’s why I’m so proud of the course you’re doing. Like, what triggers it? What turns people against one another who have been maybe not loving each other but not killing each other and then all of a sudden something sets them off. And how do we try to have interventions that prevent that?
And a lot of culture are on a tripwire – something can set them off. So how do we help other countries with the huge variety of cultures in the world understand what they need to do to try to prevent it from escalating.
So I’m delighted and I hope that those who are in this program and graduate from it will find ways in our government, ways in our international organization, in not-for-profits to be really actively involved in helping us understand what to do to prevent this from happening in the future.
Question on Glass-Steagall and protecting Americans from abuses of Wall Street:
Hillary Clinton:
…My plan is more comprehensive, more effective, and in fact tougher.
And take a look at Paul Krugman’s column today. Paul Krugman, who I think has pretty amazing progressive credentials, basically said I had the better side of this argument.
Now, why did he say this? Because I fully respect my colleagues who have said let’s reinstate Glass-Steagall. And if I thought that alone would prevent the potential next crisis, I’d raise my hand and join. But that’s not my assessment.
Because if you look, as Krugman said today in his column, some of the major actors who caused the ’08 crash were not big banks. They would have never been covered by Glass-Steagall.
AIG, the giant insurance company. Lehman Brothers. They would never have been affected by it.
And what I want to do is to crack down on the banks by assessing a risk fee and forcing them to have to comply with Dodd-Frank and tougher regulations.
And I am absolutely in favor of breaking them up if they become a risk to the economy.
But the potential next threat to our economy that has to be really reined in is what’s called the shadow banking world – the hedge funds, the money market funds. Glass-Steagall wouldn’t do anything about that if it were reinstated tomorrow.
So I have the greatest respect for my colleagues and former colleagues who are really focused on that. But I go further than that.
My proposal, which you can go to my website and read about, goes much further and includes everybody that I think would pose a risk to the economy, including the big banks but going much further than that. And that’s why I take the position I have. And you can read Paul Krugman today to understand why.
Question on Clinton’s evolving view on LGBT:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I think that if you speak with the Human Rights Campaign or any of the large advocacy groups, they will tell you that they count on me and that you can count on me.
I think I was the first and only First Lady to marched in a gay pride parade back in the 1990s. So I have been an advocate – a vocal, visible advocate – for equality and against discrimination.
Yes, my views did evolve and I think most people my age would say the same thing. There might be some exceptions but largely because of my strong opposition to discrimination of any sort and my personal relationships with a lot of people over the years, I certainly concluded that marriage equality should be the law of the land and I was thrilled when the Supreme Court made it the law of the land.
And I will enforce marriage equality. But we’ve got to go further than that.
You know, in a lot of states now because of the constitutional decision, you can get married on Saturday and get fired on Monday because we still permit discrimination in employment and in public accommodations.
So we have to pass the Equality Act, which is currently pending in Congress. That will be my highest priority. So that marriage isn’t the end of the debate; it’s a step along the path to true equality. And you will be able to count on me to fight for you.
Question on nursing shortage:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, first of all, thanks for being a nurse. And I think people know or should know that nursing care is often the single biggest reason people either get well and recover or not. So the nurse is at the center of the health care system in many ways.
So, a couple of things about this. One, the last time I looked, most nursing programs were over-subscribed by people wanting to get into them. There were far more applicants than there were places for them.
So I think we should be expanding our training programs, our educational programs so that we can actually train more nurses so we can get ahead of what is a very serious problem with the retirement of a lot of baby boom nurses and the fact that we’re just not going to have enough of a supply if we don’t start trying to fill the pipeline now.
So there are some excellent programs. But we’re going to have to open additional excellent programs and we’re going to have to try to support and I would be in favor of federal support for programs that have a proven track record of turning out excellent nurses so that they can expand. More faculty, more slots. So that they can add to the numbers who can get into the profession early.
I also think it’s important that nurses be given more authority in the medical settings in which they work. We know that a lot of nurses are being overworked. They’re being asked to serve very long shifts, and a lot of them now because the numbers have shrunk in a lot of settings, particularly hospital settings, and I think nursing home settings as well. Nurses are responsible for many more patients. And the nurses with whom I have spoken have all said this is unsustainable.
Because if you’ve ever shadowed a nurse, which I did back in 2007, it’s exhausting. You know, in and out of patients’ rooms. I was in a hospital. Stopping to do the checking with doctors. Filling out the forms. You know, by the end of the shift you’re just drained. And if you’re trying to take care of too many patients, the result can be unfortunate because we’re not setting up our systems to get the best possible care.
So I think on both ends – more training, more education, more support for those programs – and trying to make sure the nurses on the job have the support and the authority that they need. That’s how I would try to approach this.
Question on federal student loan:
Hillary Clinton:
Yeah, I can’t stand that. I think that’s terrible. And so we are going to change that. I think that FASA application is absurd. I mean, it is just absolutely absurd.
So I think, you know, we’ve had a kind of perfect storm. The application turns people off and it penalizes people like your parents. So it’s a lose-lose no matter where you start from.
The Parents-Plus loans – I don’t know if any of you have them – have become so expensive and way beyond the means of most families to be able to manage.
The federal government should not be making a profit off of student loans. That is my strong belief.
So, we got to fix the whole system and your example is unfortunately all too common. You know, you’re the same person. You know, if families can make a contribution, fine. But it has to be reasonable.
If students can work – I worked so maybe I’m a little biased – 10 hours a week to be able to get debt free tuition, which is my goal. Debt tuition. You never have to borrow money to pay tuition for public college or university like Keene State. So that will cut your costs.
And it’s just generally become so wrong – I had a young woman in Nevada say to me “The hardest part about going to college shouldn’t be figuring out how to pay for it.”
And the amount of stress and anguish and disappointment from young people and their families is just beyond anything it should ever be.
And the other problem which I’ve encountered back and forth in talking to people about this is that a lot of young people who try to start and then something happens and they drop out, they are stuck with the loans and they don’t have anything to show for it because they never got their degree.
And the worst offenders are some – not all, I want to make that very clear – some of the for-profit colleges that are pretty unscrupulous in how they treat students and their parents. And one of the most exploited groups are our veterans who under the new GI Bill have the opportunity to get an education and a lot of these for-profit colleges try to recruit the vets and then they basically take the money under one of the loopholes in the law and don’t produce the results for our vets.
So there are a number of issues here that I’m going to be confronting. And the debt-free tuition would be a big help to you. That’s going to be one of my primary goals to make college more affordable and to get the debt load down and hopefully eliminate it in a more reasonable way than what you’re facing.
Thank you all very much!
