
…Thank you all! Thank you very much! Thank you! Wow! Thank you all. Wow! I am just thrilled to be here.
I am excited about being in Seattle, and I want to thank Mayor [Ed] Murray for his endorsement. I look forward to being a good partner with you on behalf of this great American city. And I will take you up on the offer to have Michael talk to my husband…
I am also very grateful to all of our volunteers who are working so hard in this campaign across this great state, and you’re knocking down barriers, you’re building ladders of opportunity, you’re helping us make the point that this campaign is about both growing and sharing the promise of America.
We are determined that we’re going to give back the hope that every American should have – that their hard work will get them ahead, will enable them to have a better future, will give their children and, yes, their grandchildren the chance to live up to their God-given potential. That’s what we want for America and that’s what we’re doing together in this campaign.
You are all part of something bigger than yourselves. You’re part of the most consequential election we’ve had for a long time in America.
I know that the stakes get higher by the day.
I’m sorry that all the people outside could not be fit into this gymnasium but I saw the excitement that they had while standing in line. Some of them with their children. And I want them to know that if we can get the word out to them, I’m grateful that they came. Sorry they couldn’t get in. But they too understand what is at stake.
I’m also very proud to have won Arizona tonight.

It’s exciting. It’s exciting to see that result come in because, you know, Arizona like Washington, like a lot of the states that are going to be expressing their views and counting their votes in the weeks ahead understand that this is not just a contest between different candidates. This is a contest between fundamentally different views of our country, our values, and our future.
Now, what we saw today in Brussels – the horrible terrorist attack – reminds us of how high the stakes are.
We live in a complex and dangerous world and we need a commander-in-chief that can provide leadership that is strong, smart, and above all, steady in taking on these threats.
The last thing we need my friends are leaders who incite more fear.
In the face of terror, America doesn’t panic. We don’t build walls or turn our backs on our allies.
We can’t throw out everything we know about what works and what doesn’t and start torturing people.
What Donald Trump, Ted Cruz and others are suggesting is not only wrong, it’s dangerous. It will not keep us safe.
This is a time for America to lead, not cower, and we will defeat terrorism that threaten us and our allies.
We will take the fight to ISIS from the air, on the ground with local forces, and online where they recruit and propagandize. We have to dismantle the global terror pipeline, stop the flow of fighters, weapons, and money, and strengthen our defenses here at home.
And we need to work closely with our allies because that cooperation will help make our own country safe.
That is what I will do as president. So this is yet another reason why this election really matters.
And your hard work, your commitment, your optimism about what we could together is what I am counting on.
You know, we need to keep working together. We need to make a point that we’re going into the future with confidence and optimism.
There’s a lot of pessimistic talk. There’s a lot of negativity. It’s as though we aren’t Americans. Nobody can beat us. They can’t beat us anywhere if we’re up to the game, if we’re willing to compete, if we go after what matters to ourselves and our country.
That’s why so many people have joined this campaign.
And I want you to think about the next president, whoever it is, walking into the White House – well, I believe – I do believe I am the most ready of everybody running to take that job.
But I want you to think about this because I know that the caucus on Saturday here in Washington is an important milestone on this path to the nomination and the election, and I am well aware that we have to work hard between now and Saturday to convince people in Washington.
And I want you to ask them with me what they answered to the next president’s three big tests because this will be true whoever it is.
Number one, can you make a positive difference in the lives of Americans?
Number two, can you keep us safe?
And number three, can you bring us together instead of driving us apart?
Now, you know, I’ve given a lot of thought to these tests because I know having traveled across our country that each one of them really matters to Americans.

You know, start with the first – can you make a positive difference?
You know, a lot of folks ask me, “Why are so many people who go to some of these rallies so angry?”
Well, a lot of people are frustrated. A lot of people are worried. A lot of people feel that their best days and therefore our country’s best days are behind us.
And I want you just for a minute put yourselves in their minds. Think back. We had the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Nine million Americans lost their jobs. Five million homes were lost. $13 trillion – trillion dollars – in family wealth was wiped out. A lot of Americans haven’t recovered from that. A lot of Americans haven’t had a raise in 15 years. A lot of Americans worry that life is not going to be better for their kids.
I want you to understand that because sometimes when all we see is the ugliness and these protests, the mean-spiritedness, when we see people running to be president of the United States who are literally inciting bigotry and violence, it’s easy to say, “You know, I’m not even going to pay attention to that.”
But what I want you to know is we’ve got to reclaim the promise of America for all of our people – every single one of them.
And to me, that starts with more good jobs with rising incomes. It includes standing up for unions and the American labor movement.
It means more infrastructure jobs because it’s not just what you see – the roads, the bridges, the tunnels, the ports, the airports, it’s what you don’t see. It’s the deteriorating water systems across American. It’s the leaking pipelines across America. It’s what we saw in Flint, Michigan. And as horrible as that is, I wish I could tell you it’s the only place but it’s not. Children – 500,000 a year – are affected by lead poisoning.
So we’ve got work to do. It’s important work. And it will put millions of Americans to work and you can’t export those jobs. They have to be done right here in Seattle, in Washington, and across the United States.
And we need more manufacturing jobs. There are some who say, “Well, we can’t make things in America.” I was out at Everett today. I met with the machinists and the aerospace workers.
Yes, we can make things better than anybody else can right here in America. But we’ve got to make sure we change the incentives in our tax code, which unfortunately actually encourages people to move jobs out of our country. We’re going to take that on, and we’re going to make sure that we have advanced manufacturing and the good jobs that come with it.
And we’re going to start by making sure that the machinists and the aerospace workers always are making the best planes, doing the most advanced work of anybody in the world.
And we’re going to combat climate change with more clean, renewable energy jobs.
This is one of the most consequential decisions facing us in this election. I am proud that Secretary of State, I began the work with President Obama and our team that lead to the Paris agreement, that made it possible for us to say this has to be a top global priority. But if we don’t fulfill it, it means nothing. It’s just a piece of paper signed by 190 nations.
So we have work to do and I’m proud of the work that President Obama did against implacable hostility from the Republicans in Congress. I will protect, defend, and build on that work. But we’ve got to go further.
I’ve set some big goals. I want to see us deploy a half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term.
And I want enough clean, renewable energy to power every home in America by the end of my second term.
We know how to take on big challenges in our country. It’s time we start acting like it again.

I’m tired of the denial and the deception and the Koch brothers’ manipulation of our political process.
And as we grow our economy, let’s do more for small businesses, particularly young people who want to start small businesses.
And I want to thank your mayor and everybody fighting to raise the minimum wage in Washington.
We need to raise it on the federal level. It is just wrong that anybody who works full-time would still be mired in poverty, and you know, two-thirds of all minimum wage workers are women and let’s finally guarantee equal pay for women’s work.
So I’m telling what I’m going to do. I’m laying it out and we’re going to do it together and that also goes for education.
Every child in this country deserves a good teacher in a good school regardless of the zip code that child lives in.
As the mayor said, I want more early childhood education. I want to be a partner with today’s teacher. I want them to know the president will be on your side as you do the work to give our kids the education and skills they need.
I am also going to launch a campaign with your help, the help of our construction and trade unions and others to enhance more apprenticeship programs, to encourage more young people, to go and seek and obtain the skills they need to be able to be employed.
We have made a grave error in any way undermining the work that is done by carpenters and plumbers and machinists and electricians and welders. This is work that is in demand across our country.
We’re going to need more than a million people right now to fill these jobs. I want us to start doing this again in high schools, community colleges, and apprenticeship programs, which is why I want to make community college free so that young people can afford to get those skills.
And then we’re going to make four-year public colleges and universities debt-free tuition so that you can afford to attend.
I do differ with my esteemed opponent who says free for everybody. I want to concentrate on middle class families, working families, poor families.
Personally, I think if you can afford to send your child to college like Donald Trump, we should not pay for you to send your child for free.
And then we are going to take on the problem of student debt, which is stalking the lives of millions of young Americans.
This is probably one of the most pressing problems that I encounter as I travel around and I ask in crowds like this – how many have student debt? How many? Okay, huge majority. Huge. Absolutely huge majority. Huge – huge majority.
But okay, I want to ask you this: Does anybody here have an interest rate higher than 10%?
I mean, this is outrageous.
8%? How many have 8%? How about more than 6%?
You know, we haven’t had interest rates for most things besides student debt that high in years.
You can refinance your mortgage and get a better deal; you can refinance your car and get a better deal. Corporations can refinance their debt and get a better deal.
I’m going to make it possible for you to refinance your student debt and get that interest rate down.
And then I want to switch to as many of you as we’ll go into income-contingency repayment programs. You know what that is? I’ll tell you.
…

When I graduated from law school, I didn’t have any help going to school. I had to work. I had to borrow money. So I came out with a debt. But both my husband and I were in a contingency-repayment program. We paid it back as a percentage of our incomes.
So I could go to work for the Children’s Defense Fund right out of law school, which was the job that I wanted to do. And I don’t know, I think I made $14,000 a year and I could pay my debt back as a percentage.
I want every one of you to have that chance. And furthermore, I want a date certain where your obligation ends.
Now when I think about health care, I’ll tell you this and I’m proud to have the nurses’ endorsements because you know nurses are on the front lines in [health care] and they see what happens in so many different families and settings.
You know when we were in the hospital with my daughter when she had our granddaughter, Charlotte, I was talking to one of the nurses and the nurse said, “You know, so many of the mothers in here don’t have any time off. They don’t have earned sick days. They don’t have paid family leave.” They can’t afford to take unpaid leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act that my husband signed into law.
And I’ll tell you what, that made a big impression on me because the nurses see everything.
So we’re going to have paid family leave. We’re going to have earned sick days…
…We’re going to make progress on health care. We’re going to get universal health care coverage. We’re at 90% and we’re going to get there. So there’s a big agenda for us to make a positive difference in people’s lives that I want you to be part of.
And secondly, we’ve got to keep ourselves safe. That is something I’m committed to, and it’s not only about stopping terrorist attacks, although clearly that has to be front of mind.
I will do everything to have the kind of safety net that includes law enforcement of all levels, intelligence cooperation, working with our friends in Europe and others to defeat ISIS, to create a chance for everybody to get out from under the threat that terrorism poses.
But here’s what I want to say. Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have made our job harder in the last few days.
You know, Donald Trump saying we need to get out of NATO, the most important defense alliance there has ever been.
Its headquarters in Brussels, we need to modernize it and make it ready to deal with the threats of today, including terrorism and that’s exactly what I will do as president.
And Ted Cruz who said we need to be policing everywhere that Muslims live. I don’t know about you, that is not only offensive; that too is dangerous because we want everybody to feel like we are together on our common defense against terrorism.
So remember when you go to caucus and when your friends go to caucus on Saturday, this is about not only selecting a president but also selecting a commander-in-chief and we need to be sure that we have those smart steady hands because we’re going to face a lot of challenges but also a lot of opportunities that the United States has to lead on.
And finally, the third test – can you bring our country together instead of dividing it?
Well, I feel so strongly that this may be one of the most important issues not just for the president but for all of us.
You know I read an interesting article the other day. The man writing it said, “You know, we now get along with people who differ from us on nearly everything but politics. Look at the progress we’ve made on civil rights, on women’s rights, on gay rights, on all of the tough issues. But when it comes to politics, we don’t want to talk to each other. We want to draw lines.”

Now, I believe we have to seek and find common ground wherever possible. I also believe we have to stand our ground on important matters of principle and values.
But we can’t let our nation be divided. We can’t let a demagogue incite violence, model for our children the kind of bullying behavior that honestly you’d send somebody to time-out if you were in elementary school.
I feel that each of us has a role to play in this.
You know, I’ve been saying we need more love and kindness and respect in America right now. That doesn’t mean we agree with people who have a very different set of political views just for the sake of agreeing. No. But let’s figure out how to work toward at least some potential outcomes that would be good for our country.
I’ll tell you a story. When I was First Lady, you know, after we lost the health care fight because remember before it was called Obamacare, it was called Hillarycare and I took on the drug companies and the health insurance companies.
What we understood is that we had to keep working. You couldn’t get it all to work at once. And so I went to work to get the Children’s Health Insurance Program.
And tonight before coming out here I had a young man say to me – this was before, you know, a long time ago – the late 1990s – ancient history, he said to me, “I want to thank you because you saved my family from bankruptcy because of the Children’s Health Insurance Program.”
I couldn’t have done that if we hadn’t worked with Republicans, if we hadn’t sought and found common ground together.
So as I go through this campaign, I’m going to stand up for what I believe. I’m going to fight for the issues and the plans that I think will help move our country forward.
But I will always say I’ll go anywhere anytime to meet with anyone to find that common ground. If there is good faith, then maybe we make progress – maybe not as much as I would like. But enough that we can solve the problems of some Americans.
That’s what we’ve got to start doing again. We’ve got to be able to point to the results that make people’s lives better. We’ve got to be able to lift each other up, not put people down because they disagree with us or that they don’t have the right to say what they say.
You know, when you go to the caucuses on Saturday, I hope that you will and everybody that you talk with really think about not only the consequences and the stakes of this election but how far we have come together.
I’m proud of the progress we’ve made in America. I’m proud of the rights we have extended to people. I’m proud that we have so much that really has made a difference in the lives of not just Americans but people around the world.
I went to 112 countries when I was Secretary of State, and I saw that even with countries that disagreed with us how they watched us, how they wondered how we did what we did in this big, brawling, pluralistic country of ours, how we held it together, how we made progress. I was always so proud. I don’t ever want to lose that.
I want us to continue to make progress. I want us to continue to seize the future, make it what it can be. And I particularly believe that on behalf of our children.
You know, our volunteers here in Washington prove each and everyday why I believe in what I’m doing and why I know together we can make the differences I’m talking about.
Lillian Ellis [sp] just 14-years-old skipped a sleepover with her friends to get trained as a caucus captain here in Seattle.
Jonathan and James Freeberg [sp], father and son, have been knocking on doors in Kirkland for weeks.
Maria, an immigrant from Ecuador, who dreams of becoming an American citizen has been volunteering 20 hours a week for us in Bellevue.
And Valerie, a caucus captain in Renton relies on Social Security and food stamps to get by. She worries about rising drug prices but she volunteers every other day because she knows we’ve got to make progress together that this campaign is about helping people like her.
You know, it’s easy to say what you’re against. Let’s start saying what we’re for and all the people we’re for and who we want to help and what kind of difference we want to make.
These people believe that America’s best days lie ahead and so do I.
If you believe that, I hope you will come out and caucus for me this Saturday.
Thank you so much Seattle! God bless you! Thank you!
