
Hello, Fort Lauderdale! Wow!
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you all so much!
And thank you for being out here on this beautiful night. It is great to be back with all of you.
…[Public acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
And I have to tell I am really excited and very hopeful that you will send Patrick Murphy to the United States Senate!
So let me thank all of the elected officials who are here because this is a big deal. There are only now seven days in the most important election of our lifetimes.
We cannot take anything, anybody, anywhere for granted.
Are you ready to work hard and win this election?
Well, that is exactly the right answer because we need to do everything we possibly can between now and the time the polls close one week from tonight.
Because any issue you care about, anything is at stake.
I get sometimes a little overwhelmed by the fact that I love this country. I think we already are great. Now, I think we can be greater.
And you know, I am sick and tired of the negative, dark, divisive, dangerous vision and behavior of people who support Donald Trump.

It is time for us to say, “No, we are not going backwards. We’re going forward into a brighter future.”
So how do we that?
Well, for the next seven days, we focus on what’s important. Don’t get distracted. Don’t get diverted. Focus on the kind of country and world that we want to help create.
That’s what I’ve done. I have stayed focused on one thing – on you, on your lives, your families, the problems that keep you up at night. And that’s what I’m doing now because I know the day after the election, that’s what really counts.
Ask yourself – what kind of president and commander-in-chief do we need to get the economy working for everyone, not just those at the top?
Who can keep us safe and lead the world with intelligence and steadiness and strength?
Who can began to heal the divides that have been exacerbated between us and bringing Americans together again?
Well, I’ll tell you what, Donald Trump has proven himself to be temperamentally unfit and unqualified to be president of the United States.
And you know, I don’t say that about everybody.
I have known a lot of the people who ran for president on both sides – Republicans and Democrat. I disagreed with them. Don’t get me wrong. But I never thought they were unfit to serve.
Donald Trump is different. He has proven himself unfit.
And what he is doing with his conspiracy theories, with his insulting, with his demeaning and degrading millions of Americans prove he should not be allowed anywhere near the White House.
You know, on the one hand, you got to feel kind of sorry about the kind of campaign he’s running. Don’t you?
I mean, he starts off by insulting immigrants. He moves on to insult all Latinos, insults African-Americans, insults Muslims, insults people with disabilities, insults POWs, and then insults women.

I mean, really, by the time you add up all the people he’s insulted that’s more than half the population of the United States.
But here’s the good news. The good news is there’s another vision for America that’s on the ballot.
Instead of dark and divisive, it is hopeful and inclusive. It is big-hearted, not small-minded. It’s about lifting people up, not tearing each other down.
It’s a vision that says – and I believe this with all my heart – that we are stronger together. There is nothing we can do if we make up our minds to do it.
And we believe in an America that is great because it is good.
We believe in an America where women are respected, where veterans are honored, where parents are supported, where workers are paid fairly.
We believe in an America of second chances where people who have served their debt to society get a real chance to rebuild their lives, where we can end the school to prison pipeline and build a cradle to college pipeline instead.
We believe in an America that will lead the world in the fight against climate change and create millions of clean energy jobs.
We believe in an America where marriage is a right and discrimination is wrong.
We believe in an America that leads in the world and lives up to our values, an America where women finally get equal pay for the work we do.
We believe in an America where we will raise the national minimum wage so no one working full-time will still be in poverty.
We believe in an America where we will defeat terrorists because we will work with our allies in order to put together the coalition that can do that.
We believe in an America where we know the difference between our allies and our adversaries.
We believe in an America where we’re finally going to do something about the violence of gun epidemics that kill 33,000 people a year.
We believe in an America where every young person can afford to go to college and not go into debt.
We believe in an America where we’re going to help people who already have student debt pay it back faster, more cheaply, saving money.
We believe in an America where we’re going to provide quality affordable health care to every person and that includes bringing down the cost of prescription drugs and guaranteeing the security of Medicare.
We believe in an America where Social Security is a solemn promise. We will not privatize it. We will not turn it over to Wall Street like my opponent wants to do.
We believe in an America where people making less than $250,000 should not have an increase in their federal income taxes but the wealthy should pay their fair share.

We believe in an America where we grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the discredited trickle-down economics that Donald Trump has been advocating for.
And you know, by the way, we believe in an America where if somebody claims he’s worth $10 billion, you ought to pay some federal income taxes.
Hey, did any of you see the debates?
Well, you know, I spent 4.5 hour standing next to Donald Trump, which proves conclusively I have the stamina to do this job. Right?
But one of the things I said, which you know, I just – when I learned it and studied it and realized what it meant, it just sort of stunned me.
I’m standing next to a guy who flies around in a big jet, flies around in a helicopter, has his name on those, has his name on buildings. And actually one-half of the working undocumented immigrants in America pay more in federal income tax than he does.
We believe in an America where we’re going to finally have comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
We believe in an America where women are treated with respect. And as I was in Pasco County earlier today talking about what’s at stake in this election, I was introduced by a former Miss Universe Pageant winner Alicia Machado, who Donald Trump has insulted and denigrated.
And really, you know, if you’re Miss Universe, you look pretty good. Right?
But Donald Trump called her “Miss Piggy”, insulted her heritage, called her “Miss Housekeeping” because she’s a Latina.
Well, I was proud of her. She doesn’t let such a small person get her down.
But I got to say when I listen to what he says and how he talks about women and what he has bragged about doing to women, I want all the girls in America to know you are valuable. You should feel good about yourselves. Don’t let somebody like this bully tell you otherwise.
And I want to say to all the young boys – show respect because that shows you you’re a real man and you will stand up for what is right.
So you know, literally, I mean this is so much fun. But it’s really late. I mean, I could be here all night talking about what’s at stake in this election.
But I think you already know because you’ve been out here and you’ve been willing to be here with me because we know that we’ve got to turn out the vote.
And what that means that every one of you who can should vote early.
How many of you have already voted?

Well, that doesn’t surprise me because 4 million people in Florida have already voted.
But there are millions more that we’ve got to get to go out and vote.
And here’s what I hope you will do. Talk to your friends, your family members, your co-workers.
It’s pretty easy to vote early in Florida. There are lots of different places in this county and every other neighboring county for you to go to.
And it’s important to tell people who got ballots in the mail, fill them out and send them in because we need everybody to step up.
And remember, there’s no state where it’s more important. You know what happened in 2000. Right?
I was with Al Gore in Miami, and he can tell you better than anyone every vote counts, especially here in Broward County.
And you know, this is not complicated. If people who support our positive, inclusive, unifying vision vote, we win.
And we will make history on Nov. 8th.
So if you’ve already voted, come work with us. Make some of the calls. We’re making millions of calls, knocking on thousands – hundreds of thousands of doors – to encourage everybody to be sure to vote.
And you know, you can vote right near here at the African-American research library but there are dozens of other sites.
And all sites in Broward County are open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day until Nov. 6th.
So if you don’t know where you’re supposed to vote, that’s easy too. You can go to IWillVote.com and that will tell you the nearest early voting location to where you live.
And I want you to also do me another favor. If you know anybody who says they’re thinking of voting for Trump, I want you to stage an intervention.
And I want you to talk to this person because unless they’re a billionaire who avoided paying taxes for 20 years and lost $1 billion running casinos, they don’t have anything to gain from Donald Trump. In fact, they do have so much to lose.
Every single issue we care about may not be actually listed on the ballot but make no mistake it’s on there.
And talk to your friend or your co-worker and say, “You know, really, you may be angry about something but anger is not a plan. Don’t be used. Don’t be exploited. Stand up for what we can do together.”
Because that’s what this election ultimately comes down to. It’s about our future. It’s about who we are as a country.
And I promise you this. If you give me the great honor of serving as your president, I will wake up everyday in that White House trying to figure out what I can do to help you and you and you get ahead.
You see, I really believe America’s best days are still ahead of us. Don’t buy into that dark, pessimistic vision. It’s not true and it’s not who we are as Americans.
So if we stand up and we say no, we’re rejecting that. We’re not going back. We are going to move with confidence into the future – forward into the kind of potential that makes it possible for every single person to live up to his or her God-given potential, then we’re going to build the future we want together.
And we’re going to prove once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you all!
