
Good morning! Thank you all. Thank you very much.
Well, it’s been quite a week, hasn’t it?
Well, thank you all so much. I am absolutely delighted to be here. As some of you may know, I had a pretty long day yesterday.
But I finally got to answer questions – something I’ve been pushing for literally a year. And I am just grateful I recovered my voice, which I lost a little bit.
But as I said at the start, I wanted to rise above partisanship and reach for statesmanship and that is what I tried to do.
And now I am delighted to be here with all of you, to be with the WLF – a group that actually focuses on the issues. You are women after my own heart.
…And I want to say a word about another great Democrat who has always been a champion for women and families and all of us. Vice President Joe Biden has been in the trenches with us for years. He fought for the Violence Against Women Act and so much more. And I’m confident that history isn’t finished with Joe Biden.
As he said the other day, there is more work to do and if I know Joe he’ll be right there with us on the front lines.
And I want to thank all of you for putting women’s voices, women’s ideas, women’s lives right where they belong – at the heart of American politics.
You know, it is sometimes hard to believe but the notion that women should be equal partners in the life of our nation is still pretty new.
That’s why the Women’s Leadership Forum was created to help make that ideal a reality.
During the 1992 campaign Tipper Gore and I traveled all over the country together and we spent a lot of time in people’s living rooms and their backyards, sitting around kitchen tables, talking with mothers and daughters and grandmothers about their lives.
And we heard so much. We heard about the dreams for the future that people had for themselves and their kids. And we heard a lot about the struggles that made life harder than it should be, the problems that kept women up at night.
Again and again, we would hear “You know, no one’s asked us these things before.”
To a lot of them, it seemed like Washington just wasn’t very interested in the actual real lives of women in our country.
So we decided that we had to make sure that in this party – our party – women’s voices would always be heard, that in this party – our party – the problems that keep women and their families up at night would always be front and center.
And we wanted to bring more women into the electoral process as voters and advocates, as organizers, fundraisers, candidates, and elected officials because we know women are half the country – indeed, slightly more – half the planet, and more than half the Democratic Party.

So if we want to make sure that women and families are better represented in politics, we need to get more of us involved in politics at every level. As we’d like to say, “When women lead, families succeed.”
And now 22 years later, women are a greater force in politics here in our country than ever before.
We are voting in greater numbers. Increasingly, we are the decisive voters in national elections.
More women are serving at high levels of government.
There are not one, not two, but three women on the Supreme Court.
And the number of women who have served in the Senate and the House has grown exponentially.
And now of course, another presidential season has begun and I’m doing everything I can to make sure that the issues that matter most to women and families are front and center in this race.
I started off my campaign last spring doing the same thing I did all those years when I ran for the Senate – traveling across the country, visiting people’s homes and schools and businesses and actually listening as they told me about their lives – the good and the bad, the hard. It was an amazing and humbling experience.
If you find the time and space to give people a chance to talk to you instead of you talking at them, they’ll share what’s in their hearts and in their hopes.
Now, many families do feel that things are a lot better for them and they give credit, as they should, to President Obama and his administration.
And I believe the President’s leadership and the hard work of the American people pulled our economy and our nation back from the brink. In fact, we could have had a Great Depression, not a Great Recession.
So as I travel across the country, I try to tell the story of what President Obama inherited – the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
So America is standing again but we’re not yet running the way we should be and families are still stretched in a million different directions and so are their budgets.
Costs keep rising but most people’s paychecks haven’t moved in years. But corporate profits and CEO pay keep rising. Quality child care costs more than college tuition in many states. And the minimum wage is a poverty wage. Millions of Americans are held back by student debt. And at a time when more women than ever are their families’ main breadwinners, too often they still don’t get equal pay. And women of color earn less than others. Right?
And just this week, the Department of Labor released new data showing that as our economy gets stronger, men’s pay is going up more than twice as fast as women’s pay.
You know, in one of my town halls in Nevada, I called on a little girl who was sitting with her father and you never know what kids are going to ask you which is why I try to call on at least one if they’re in my town hall. And this little girl stepped up and she said, “If you’re a girl president, will you be paid as much as a boy president?” I said, “Well, I think so. I think that’s in the law.”
But I think of the single mom that I met who’s juggling a job and classes at a community college while raising her three kids on her own. She’s doing what she has to to give her children a better life and she doesn’t expect anything to come easy. But she asked me, “Isn’t there anything we can do so it doesn’t have to be quite so hard?”
I think of the student who told me that paying for college shouldn’t be the hardest thing about going to college.
Or the man I met whose mother has Alzheimer’s. He’s a teacher. He can’t afford a full-time caretaker for her. He can’t quit his job or he wouldn’t be able to support her. So you know what he does? He brings her to work with him. There’s nothing else he can think of to do. And he told me this with so much sadness because this is not what he pictured for his mother’s golden years.

And it’s not just women taking care of aging parents, it is like this young man, men too. All of our caretakers deserve a lot more support.
And the same goes for other policies like paid family leave, fair and predictable shifts, higher wages so you don’t have to work two jobs to make ends meet and you could actually be home with your kids at night. And these are not just challenges for women. They’re challenges for all Americans.
Because I firmly believe when we fight for women, we’re fighting for our entire country and the reverse is true as well.
When we fight to make America fairer, stronger and more prosperous, we are also fighting for women.
When we fight to make college more affordable and student debt less punishing or to hold corporations accountable when they gouge us on drug prices or pollute our environment or exploit workers, that’s fighting for women and men and fighting for America.
And when we fight to create a pathway to citizenship for millions of immigrants or to make Social Security even stronger or to protect and improve the Affordable Care Act because every deserves access to quality affordable care.
And yes, that access should include basics like reproductive care, including birth control and pre-and-post natal care and cancer screenings. That’s why we have to defend Planned Parenthood against the attacks that are being waged.
When we fight to protect the equal rights of all our people no matter what they look like or who they love and when we fight to stop the epidemic of gun violence that’s claiming innocent lives every single day in every corner of our country, that’s fighting for women and men and fighting for America.
You know, I’ve been told to stop – and I quote – “shouting about gun violence.” Well, first of all, I’m not shouting. It’s just when women talk, some people think we’re shouting. And second, I will not be silenced because we will not be silenced, not by the gun lobby, not by the size of this challenge, not by any of it. Stopping gun violence is worth fighting for, and I’m ready to go and I hope you will join with me.
Now, none of these fights are new to me and I know they aren’t new to many of you. But we do have our work cut out for us because there are so many people with a very different vision for our country and they will say, do, and spend whatever it takes to advance their out-of-touch, out-of-date agenda.
For people who say they hate big government, Republicans sure spend a lot of time trying to restrict women’s reproductive health and reproductive rights.
After my experience yesterday, I am just amazed that they are even talking about setting up another special investigative committee this time to investigate Planned Parenthood, and I think we all know by now that’s just code for a partisan witch hunt. Haven’t we seen enough of that?
I’d like those Republican candidates who are advocating against Planned Parenthood to meet the mom who caught her cancer early thanks to a screening at Planned Parenthood or the young woman who avoided an unintended pregnancy because she did have access to birth control.
Now, I know that when I talk like this, Republicans will say I’m playing the gender card. Well, you know what? Here’s what I’d say: If calling for equal pay and paid leave and women’s health is playing the gender card, then deal me in.

Now, there’s a long campaign still ahead of us and other candidates from the other party may be out there hurling insults at everyone, talking about what’s wrong with America and pointing fingers to try to blame people for it.
Well, that’s not me.
I’m going to keep doing what I’ve always done and that’s fight for you and fight for your families.
And I am so grateful for the hundreds of thousands of grassroots activists who are joining me in this campaign, not only those fortunate enough like us to be in rooms like this one but the workers and students and teachers, the parents and grandparents all across our country who are giving $1 or $5 at a time because they too believe in what we are fighting for.
So we’ve come a long way in the past 22 years. I’m really proud of this organization and all that it has achieved.
The Women’s Leadership Forum has changed the Democratic Party. You’ve changed it for the better. We’re stronger than we’ve ever been.
So let’s keep fighting for that better future, for our children and our grandchildren.
Now, as some of you I’m sure know, I have the most amazing, extraordinary granddaughter, and she really does keep me going and thankfully my daughter and wonderful son-in-law send me little videos and little pictures, which have been a great boost along the campaign trail.
And I think a lot about her future. I think about what kind of opportunities she’ll have. But I also think about what kind of opportunities all the children of America will have, what kind of country will she become an adult in, what kind of world will be waiting for her.
Because I don’t think it’s enough for anybody that my granddaughter, your children and grandchildren, certainly the granddaughter of a former President, should be able to pursue her dreams when so many of our other children in this country are feeling left behind and left out.
For the first time in American history so far as I know, more than half of the kids in our public schools are eligible for free or reduced price lunches. Poverty has returned with a vengeance. We made a lot of progress against poverty, lifting families out of poverty back in the 90s.
I think it’s a verifiable fact that our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And both my husband and President Obama inherited economic challenges from their Republican predecessors. Both worked hard.
With my husband, it was dealing with an economy that wasn’t growing fast enough but then took off – 23 million new jobs and incomes rising at every part of our economy – top, middle, working, low-income people – all were doing better.
We handed over a balanced budget and a surplus to the incoming Republican administration and they squandered it all. Not only did they cut taxes dramatically on the wealthy, but they basically got out of the way of corporations. They took their eye off the financial markets. They didn’t pay a penny for the wars that they waged. And you know what happened.
And it took another Democratic president, who you will hear from later today, to come in and accept the responsibility which he did to try to repair the damage that had been done.
Now, everything that I’ve talked about before – all of our rights, all of our hopes – will be at risk if the Republicans once again are successful in making the same arguments they always make. It’s discredited. It doesn’t work. But that doesn’t stop them. They’ll be back talking about cutting taxes on the wealthy, getting out of the way of corporations. We know what that leads to – increasing inequality, exploitation of workers, pollution of our environment, denial of climate change, refusal to move into the 21st century with clean, renewable energy, a failure to provide early childhood education and universal pre-kindergarten so every kid has a chance to get ahead.
You can listen to their debates for hours – and unfortunately some of us have to – and you won’t hear a single solution to any of the problems we’re facing here at home or around the world.
So my campaign is really an effort to try to build an America where everyone – women and men – can rise as far as their talent and hard work take them, where everyone – everyone – has a shot at achieving their dreams and living up to their potential, and yes, where a father can say to his daughter, “You can be anything you want to be even president of the United States.”
Thank you all very much. Thank you!
