
Oh thank you, San Jose!
Wow! I am so, so excited about being here. I can’t tell you how wonderful it is to be in this city, which as the lieutenant governor just said is a city all about the future. All about the future of the economy, the future of our society, how we are going to be stronger together.
…Now, you know when you run for office and particularly when you run for president, you always come and tell big crowds like this “This is the most important election.” Don’t you? You hear that.
I happen to think every election is important. But you know what? This is the most important election. Because we’ve got some big decisions to make as a country. And there could not be a starker difference between me and now as of today the Republican nominee Donald Trump.
You know, I’m proud of the campaign that Sen. Sanders and I have run. We have run a campaign on issues about the future.
We both want universal health care coverage. We both want to make college affordable within the reach of every young person who wants to go to a public college or university.
We both want to rein in and prevent what happened in the Great Recession with the misdeeds of Wall Street from ever happening again.
We are on the same page.
So we are going to be coming together as a unified Democratic Party to make our case against Donald Trump because we – Sen. Sanders and I – our supporters together have so much more in common than we do with Donald Trump.
People say to me, “Well, you talk about Trump a lot.” And I do and I’ll tell you why. Because what he is saying is dangerous and divisive. What he is saying is harmful to our future and our country.
Our president – President Obama – is in Japan today meeting with our closest allies and we came out of the meeting and went to the formal press conference that ends events like that, he said he reported that the leaders of our friends are “rattled” – rattled – by what Donald Trump is saying and what he is promoting and what he stands for.

Well, I’ll tell you what. The best way to reassure ourselves and the rest of the world is to make sure that Donald Trump – this loose cannon – never gets close to the White House.
You know, it was bad enough when he started his campaign in his very first hour criticizing and insulting immigrants. You know, he called immigrants “rapists”, “murderers”, and “criminals”. It was disgraceful.
And then he went on to insult women, to insult John McCain – a war hero, to insult, to make fun of a man with a disability, to denigrate Muslims. Honest to goodness, there’s nobody left by the time he gets finished with criticizing everybody he can.
That is no way to run for president of the United States.
I’m telling I am so looking forward to debating Donald Trump. I can’t wait!
Because here’s what we’re going to talk about. What is our positive vision? I have ideas about how to create more good jobs with rising incomes.
We’re going to invest in infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our water systems.
We are going to finish the job of connecting up America so everybody has access to affordable Internet connections.
We are going to make things in America again by incentivizing advanced manufacturing.
You know, here in California, you are inventing the future, new technologies, new research every single year. So let’s make those products in America again.
And let’s agree to fight climate change, which Donald Trump called a Chinese hoax.
Honestly, you’ve heard all of the Republicans when they were running. Part of the reason the Republicans have ended up with Donald Trump is because they could never criticize him about issues because they basically agree with him about issues. Right?
So when the Republicans were asked “Well, what do you think about climate change?” They always said, “Oh, I don’t know. I’m not a scientist.” Well, they could go to San Jose, stay and find a scientist and figure out all about climate change.
One of the ways we’re going to combat climate change is by investing in and creating jobs in clean renewable energy.
I have said two big goals. I want us to deploy half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home in America by the end of my second term.
That will not only put the United States in the lead on dealing with climate change but it will also create a new economy because think about this: Some country is going to be the clean energy super power. It’s either going to be China, Germany, or us. I want it to be us. Don’t you?
And when you think about millions of jobs in infrastructure, manufacturing, and clean energy, these are jobs that can’t be outsourced. These are jobs that have to be done in California and across America.
Now, what does Donald Trump propose? He proposes to build a wall. A wall.
Now, honestly, we’ve been trying to figure out about that wall. We’d figure it would cost about $25 billion.
Now, think about what else we could use $25 billion for. We could 1,500 new elementary schools so kids have a chance to go to a modern, good elementary school.
We could pay for college for 300,000 veterans if we did that.
So there’s a lot that we will have to talk about when we finally get to stand on that stage together.

And the other thing about Trump’s policies is he doesn’t give you specifics. Have you noticed that? It’s pretty much a topline, top of the water sort of proposal.
And yet, one thing we do know is when it comes to tax policies, he has two ideas.
One, he wants to have billionaires get even lower taxes. His tax plan is written by a billionaire for billionaires, best as I can tell. And he doesn’t want you to see his taxes.
Those are his two principles when it comes to taxes.
Now, I disagree with that.
Number one, I think we should tax the wealthy. They have not been paying their fair share to support America.
And number two, my husband and I have released 33 years of tax returns.
And the only two years that Donald Trump has released, he had to release to get a casino. So he had to come up with his income tax returns. The only two years he’s released, he paid zero in federal income tax. Zero!
And yet, he goes around saying he wants to build up the military, make it the strongest in the world. Well, it is the strongest in the world and I will keep it the strongest in the world. But he won’t pay a penny to make that happen.
So anybody who’s been nominated by a major party has had to come up with their tax returns. We’re going talk about this everyday.
Because either he’s paid no taxes or he’s paid very little, the only way to find out which it is is for him to release.
Either he’s as wealthy as he claims or maybe he’s not, the only way to find out is for him to release.
Maybe he is really charitable or maybe he is not, only way to find out is for him to release.
So, it’s time [for Trump to release] his tax returns.
You know, the other thing is you never hear Donald Trump talk about education. He’s never said anything as best as I’ve heard.
Well, here’s where I stand.
We need early childhood education so every single child is well-prepared to succeed in school.
We need to be a partner to our teachers…[so they can] do the job that we expect them to do on behalf of our kids.
We need to make community college free so that you can get the additional training, skills, and education to get a job.
We need more technical education through high school programs, community college programs, business supported, union supported apprenticeships. We need to have more ways for people to get the skills that will be competitive for themselves and for their families.
I’m excited about that. Nobody works harder than Americans. Nobody. Nobody in the world works harder than Americans.
And we’re going to make it possible for every young person and maybe not so young person to get the skills that will enable that person to have a good job with a rising income.
Education is a part of that. That’s why I want you to have debt-free tuition. You won’t have to borrow a penny to go to a public college or university.
And we have a plan to help you pay down and pay off your debt. So you’re not burdened by your student debt, which is such a problem.
So I think what I’m proposing will help grow the economy. And I’ve got to tell you it’s just a historic fact – the economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
And you know, you don’t go back to the beginning of the Republic. Go back to the 1990s.
After eight years, 23 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody, not just those at the top. Middle class families. Working families. Poor families. More people lifted out of poverty than at any time in recent history.
We were on the right track. We even had a balanced budget and a surplus. We could have paid down the national debt.
So what happened? I’ll tell you what happened. The Republicans came back and slashed taxes on the wealthy, took their eyes off of the mortgage and finance markets, and you know what happened – the worst financial crisis since the Great Recession.

…There’s some videos that surfaced where Donald Trump is actually rooting – rooting – for a housing collapse because he said, “Well, I’ll be able to make a lot of money.”
Five con artists. Five million homes were lost. A lot of homes here in California and where I just was in Nevada.
Think of the heartbreak. Think of the suffering and disappointment.
So we know a lot about Donald Trump. He roots for himself, not for you. He wants a good result for himself. He doesn’t care who gets hurt in the process.
That is not the kind of person who should be the president of the United States of America. We cannot let that happen.
And you know, when it comes to health care, he wants to do away with the Affordable Care Act.
I’ll tell you, I want to make it better. I want to improve it. I want to get the costs down.
Before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare. I am committed to doing this.
And we’re going to get prescriptions drugs down.
And there’s two other issues we’re going to address – mental health and addiction. There is just too much suffering.
People with mental health are not getting the treatment they deserve to get. And there still is a stigma. We’ve got to stop this. People who have diabetes should get treated just like people who have depression should get treated.
And we’ve got to do more to move people who are addicted onto the path for treatment and recovery, not onto the path for jail or prison. That is not the right decision.
So I am looking forward to debating jobs, the economy, taxes, education, health care.
And I’m also looking forward to debating what is one of the most important parts of your decision when you vote and that is voting for someone who is both president and commander-in-chief.
Look, I understand why President Obama was in that meeting and trying to field all the questions and concerns from leaders around the world. Because look at what Trump has said in recent days.
He’s attacked our closest ally – Great Britain.
He has praised the dangerous dictator of North Korea. Now, this is a little funny though. He praised Kim Jong-un and the North Korean Ambassador to the U.N. came out yesterday and said they don’t want to talk to Donald Trump. I mean, I don’t attribute a lot of good sense to that regime but it’s probably the right decision.
Trump has even suggested it’s fine with him if more countries get nuclear weapons, for heaven’s sakes.
You know, for 70 plus years, Republicans and Democrats we’ve been trying to keep nuclear weapons out of more countries’ hands and certainly out of more terrorists’ hands. It’s one of the most serious risks we face. You can’t talk about nuclear weapons like it’s a walk in the park.
He’s even said he’d use nuclear weapons against ISIS, which is not even a state.
He wants to return to torture. He wants to pull out of NATO. He wants to ban all Muslims.
I mean, really. I could see why President Obama said that his counterparts were rattled. They’re watching this. You know, when you make these absurd, outrageous statements, that’s not just heard in the big hall where you talk; that’s heard around the world.
You know, people who count on the United States – our steadiness, our strength, our stability – they look to who is running for president. They look to who is president.
Now, in a lot of places, it is the beacon that keeps them going trying to figure out what is America doing, what is the American president saying.
And you think about the recent presidents we’ve had. We may have disagreed and had really serious differences, right? That’s part of the American DNA.
But I remember 9/11, George W. Bush went to an Islamic community center. Remember that? And basically said, “We are going to go after those who attacked us but we’re not going to be attacking each other.”

And President Obama has worked so hard to reach out to people everywhere.
And you know, it matters who’s sitting in that situation room. I’ve spent a lot of hours there. I’ve spent a lot of hours.
And I’ll just give you one example. It’s a famous example. It’s whether or not the president would go after Bin Laden based on the evidence, the intelligence that was presented. And I was asked to be part of the small group that was assessing this intelligence.
And we worked so hard because I personally having been a senator from New York on 9/11 having gone to Ground Zero 24 hours after we were attacked, I wanted to do anything I could to bring Bin Laden to justice.
And we had to evaluate this intelligence. Was this funny looking big building a place where the most wanted terrorist in the world could be hiding out?
We all went through it over and over again. And it came down to three choices.
Don’t do anything because it’s just not strong enough to act on. It’s okay but we don’t want to risk special forces so let’s use a missile to take this place out. Or it’s the best we’ve had to get him so let’s send in a SEAL team.
And then the president went around the room, around the table and ask everybody what we recommended. And people who I deeply respect, we were not all in agreement. Some people said no, you shouldn’t do it. Some people said it’s not worth the risk of a special forces team going in but if we think it’s good enough take the missile strike. And I was among those who said no, we have to find out. If we do a missile strike, we’ll never find out. We’ll never know.
So we all gave our advice. But then that moment comes. And this is what you need to think about. When the president gets up and says he’s going to go think about this because ultimately you can have all the advisers, all the people who are experts. But the president has to make the decision.
And you know he came back and he said “Yup, we’re going to go with a SEAL team.” And we all held our breadth that day when the attack occurred. We were all just under the most intense stress.
There were a lot – there was a lot of planning. People had done everything they could. The military was superb, thinking through every possible contingency. But things happen. One of those helicopters clipped the barbed wire on top of the wall and went down. But everything had been thought through.
So, Bin Laden was found. He was killed. His body was brought across the border and he was identified.
And no president wants to seek out those kinds of situations but every president faces those hard choices and we need a president who can be steady and strong.
And I promise you I will take good care of our men and women in uniform and I will protect our country and help to lead the world.
Now, finally let me say this there’s a lot of other issues that Trump has staked out. And I want you to know where I stand in comparison.
I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. And I will defend Planned Parenthood against the partisan attacks.
I will defend marriage equality and work to end discrimination against the LGBT community.
I will defend voting rights and appoint Supreme Court justices who will overturn Citizens United.
I will defend labor union and the right to organize and bargain collectively.

And I will stand up to the gun lobby and work to get common sense gun safety reforms.
Now, I can’t do any of this without your help. I want to unify the Democratic Party and I want to unify the United States of America.
I will go anywhere to meet with anyone to find common ground. I will also stand my ground.
But we’ve got to bring this country together. We do not need to be divided.
As Lincoln said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand.”
We cannot stand this kind of hate talk and rhetoric and demagoguery.
So here is what I’m asking you. If you’ve already gotten a ballot sent to your house, fill it in and send it in.
You could still get a ballot all the way up through May 31st if you want to vote like that. And please do if you think you might have trouble getting to the polls on June 7th.
And then on June 7th, please come out and vote and bring everybody you can who knows we’ve got to start right here in California making the future that we want to see for our country, for our children and grandchildren.
If you will vote for me California, I will work my heart out to get you the future that we deserve.
Thank you and God bless you!
