
Thank you! Wow! Thank you all! Thank you! Thank you!
I got to say after hearing – after hearing from these two extraordinary men, I feel all fired up and ready to go for the next five days.
It is so great to be back here with all of you.
…Everything Pharrell and Bernie just said is not only about the presidential election and what’s at stake. It is about who’s going to represent you as your governor, as your senator, as members of Congress, and the legislature. And you have some excellent candidates, and we are so hopeful that you will vote for them and vote for what they represent.
I really want to thank my friend, Bernie Sanders, for everything that he has done. I got to serve with Bernie. We were colleagues in the Senate. I saw firsthand his commitment to the people of Vermont and to the values that have guided his life.
And when we faced each other in the primary, here’s what I was so proud about. We ran a campaign on the issues that mattered to the American people.
And I think because of that campaign, we were able to raise a lot of the issues that you heard Bernie talking about to the level that they are part of this presidential campaign. And they will be part of our agenda after Jan. 20th, Bernie.
And I’ve got to say too, this election’s been a lot more fun now that we’re on the same side.
And I want to thank Bernie for everything he’s done. He’s criss-crossing our country, energizing people, getting folks off the sidelines and engaged in politics. And there’s no question that his efforts are paying off.
And what he said at the beginning of his remarks is absolutely true.
My name may be on the ballot but it is not about me. It’s not about my opponent. It’s not about Bernie. It’s not about David or Deborah.
It is about you and your lives and what we’re going to do together.
Now, Bernie and I have already worked – we worked on the plan that he told you about to make college tuition free for the middle class, for working families, for poor kids, and debt free for everyone.
Because as Bernie said earlier this year, when people who care about progressive causes stand together, we win, and then we can get to work on making those causes into realities for the lives of our people.
So I am proud to be here with you. And I am so excited about the election, about everything that we’re going to do together.

And I’m especially pleased to have Pharrell [Williams] here.
Now, every time I see him, which is not often enough, we always have a good conversation like we did before this event. He always gets you to think.
Not only is he a world-class talent, but he is a passionate advocate for issues that are too often overlooked and ignored.
He wants to and I’m going to do everything I can help him to deliver giving kids who are at risk access to educational and arts programs that they deserve to have just as much as any other child.
So tell me this, tell me this, North Carolina. Tell me, North Carolina. Are you really, really, really, really happy that we’re here tonight?
Well, we sure are. There’s no where we’d rather be.
Now, let me ask you this. How many of you have already voted?
Well, I hope you’re going to bring more people to vote as well. Right?
Are you ready to volunteer? We can all use you in these last days.
Are you ready to elect Roy Cooper? Well, I’m glad to hear that because it’s time you had a governor who puts families first, not radical ideology.
And I love seeing our educators stand up and applaud because you need a governor who actually cares about the education of the children of North Carolina.
Now, are you ready to elect Deborah Ross to the United States Senate?
I’ll tell you, Deborah and her race are the talk of everywhere. People know she will be an independent voice for North Carolina families, that she will represent you with integrity and excellence.
And unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
Are you ready now to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Well, I’m excited. Did any of you see the debates.
Well, you know, there are several – there are several notable aspects of those debates.
I mean, one is the very fact that I stood on the stage for 4.5 with my opponent, proving once and for all that I have the stamina to be president and commander-in-chief.
But you know, he also kept saying like “Oh well, you know, what have you done for the last 30 years?”
And you know, occasionally I would interject and say what I had done.
And today in Greenville, we had a perfect comparison.
I started my career fighting for children and families with the Children’s Defense Fund when I got right out of law school in the 1970s.
I went to South Carolina to gather evidence to stop the government in South Carolina from putting young men – teenagers – in jails with adults.
I went to Alabama undercover to gather information about segregated academies to deprive them of tax-exempt status, which they did not deserve.
I went door-to-door in New Bedford, Massachusetts gathering information to make the case that every child in America including children with disabilities should have the right to a public school education.
And as we heard this morning from just a wonderful, distinguished older woman by the name of Mae Wiggins who came all the way down tell her story.
She was a nurse in New York City back in the 1970s, excited about being a young nurse, getting her career off to a start.
And she was looking for a place to live. And she had a budget like everybody does. And she found what she thought would be the perfect place. It was within her budget. It was close to work.
She went to apply for an apartment. It was a new building – brand new building. Wasn’t even totally finished yet.
She went into the little office and asked for an application, and they said, “Oh, we don’t have any apartments.” She said, “But I saw the advertisement.” “Well, we have no apartments left.”
Well, she thought that was pretty peculiar and so she decided to do a little investigation, and she found out that all of her African-American friend who’d gone to that apartment run by Donald Trump and his father, Fred, had been told there were no apartments.
So, she had the gumption to go and make the complaint, which led to the Justice Department suing them for discrimination. They settled the suit but then they had to come back a year later and sue them again because they were still discriminating.
So when you hear, as Bernie so powerfully said at the end of his remarks, that we are standing against the possibility of returning and normalizing discrimination, take it seriously, my friends, because it truly is – it truly is – at stake in this election.

And I was also very, very grateful I had a role in helping to create the Children’s Health Insurance Program as First Lady.
And let me tell you, one of the great honors as I travel across the country is meeting young people who are the beneficiaries or meeting their families.
I met a young woman here in North Carolina who told her story and we actually recorded it because all of us were so moved by what she had to say.
When her baby was born, her daughter she was deaf. And the doctors all said she’ll never communicate. So she cannot learn to speak so you need to teach her sign language.
And the mom did all this research and concluded that there were some treatments that might help her daughter but she didn’t have that kind of money. They didn’t have that kind of insurance.
And she was telling her doctor, she didn’t know what to do, and the doctor just serendipitously said, “You know, there’s this new program, it’s called the Children’s Health Insurance Program. It’s for people who are not poor but they don’t make enough money to afford that kind of insurance, and they don’t work for an employer who provides it. You should look into it.”
And she did. And that began the process of her getting the treatment that her daughter needed.
And when I met the mother, I also met the daughter. Right here. I talked with her. She told me how proud she was because she had just graduated from college – George Washington University.
So, yes, you know I do sweat the details and I do have a lot of plans.
Tim Kaine and I put a whole book out called Stronger Together telling you exactly what we’re going to try to do if we’re fortunate enough to be president and vice president.
Because I actually think it’s important for you to know what we’re going to do together.
And as a senator, I helped to rebuild New York City after 9/11 and provided health care to our brave first responders.
As your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and LGBT rights all around the world.

And you know, everything I’ve done started by listening to people.
Listening to hear your stories, what you’re worried about, and then working to bring people together to find common ground even with people who’ve disagreed with me on lots of issues.
You know, when I was First Lady, I had a great commitment to kids in foster care and I wanted to improve our foster care and adoption laws. And I was looking for some Republican to work with me, and I found one because I did my research and found out that one of the most partisan Republicans – Congressman Tom DeLay – from Texas had a heart for children in foster care.
He and his wife had foster children, and I called him up. I said, “Congressman, would you work with me to change the laws on foster care and adoption?” There was a silence. He said, “Well, what do you want me to do?” I said, “Well, come to the White House. Come to a meeting. We’ll sit down and figure out what we can do.” And we did.
And I meet those kids and I meet those families, kids who were taken out of foster care and given the chance to have a loving, permanent family for the first time.
Now, I’m telling you because I really believe that’s the only way we’re going to get things done. And if you elect me next Tuesday, that is the kind of president I will be.
So, let me just – let me just mention a few of the ideas that we’ve been putting forward to help you and your families get ahead and stay ahead because I truly believe you need a candidate you can vote for not just someone to vote against.
But as you’re making this choice, we need to be clear about what the choice is because come Jan. 20th, America will have a new president. It will be either me or my opponent.
Now, I think it’s fair to say things is going to change. Change is part of life. That much is certain. The question is what kind of change are we going to see?
Are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better America? Or are we going to fear each other and fear our future?
I want you just to imagine – imagine the different kinds of future that are available, depending upon who’s elected on Jan. 20th.
Because by imagining it, I want you to think about every issue you care about – everything that is dear to you.
…As we’ve heard from Pharrell and from Bernie, it’s hard for me to imagine that we would have a president who has demeaned women, mocked the disabled, insulted African-Americans and Latinos, pitted people against each other instead of bringing them together.
That is unfortunately, though, what we have seen in this campaign, what we have seen, what’s been said.
People come and talk to me. I’ve had people say that they can’t sleep, that their stomaches are bothering them, that they have headaches. And I think that’s an important signal because this is a big decision.
And as Michelle Obama has said, the presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.
And I think it’s fair to say that my opponent has already revealed who he is.
And he wants to ban every Muslim in the world from coming to the United States. Our country is founded on religious freedom. It is one of the most important building blocks of our democracy.
He has said that he thinks the lives of black people are all crime and poverty and despair. He has no idea. No idea about the strength of the black church, the vibrancy of black-owned businesses, the excellence of historically black colleges and universities.

He seems not to recognize the rise of a new generation of black activists for social justice and the success of black leaders in every field.
And we saw that again in the way he treated the Central Park Five.
These were five black and Latino kids, some as young as 14, who were wrongly convicted of a terrible crime in New York City back in 1990.
Donald Trump took out full-page ads in four newspapers calling for the death penalty of these kids.
Nearly three decades later, they were exonerated by DNA evidence. And in addition, someone else confessed to the crime. So they were finally released from prison.
But not only did Trump refuse to apologize for what he had said about them and even calling for their executions, he actually said they should still be in prison. Evidence didn’t matter. The law didn’t matter. To him, those kids will always be guilty.
So think about it. If he wants to keep exonerated people in jail, how can we trust him to fight for the rule of justice and fairness and criminal justice reform in America?
Do we want him appointing our judges? Do we want him controlling the Justice Department?
Well, I’ve said many times he has shown us who he is. Now, it is up to us to decide who we are.
And right now, people across our country are coming together to do just that.
They are rejecting the dark and divisive vision for one that is more hopeful and inclusive.
We know that America is big-hearted, not small minded. We want to lift people up, not tear each other down.
And that’s why I do believe we are stronger together.
So let me paint you a different picture. Here’s what we’re going to do together.
We’re going to take on systemic racism with a full commitment and real follow-through because we refuse to accept as normal some of what we’re seeing across America.
What happened to that church in Mississippi yesterday should not have had happened and it should never be accepted. People painted the words “Vote Trump” on the side and then set it on fire. Who would do that? Who would do that to a place of worship where people seek solace?
That can never be normal. It can never be acceptable.
What happened in Flint, Michigan, as Bernie said, can never be normal, can never be acceptable. Little children drinking and bathing in poisoned water that will affect their health for years to come.
And then we know, don’t we, too many young African-Americans are dying in police incidents or because of gun violence.
We know their names – Trayvon Martin and Eric Garner and Sandra Bland and Keith Scott and so many others.
We have got to face this, and we’re going to get to work to do just that.
We are going to dismantle the so-called school to prison pipeline. And we’re going to replace it with a cradle to college pipeline.
And we’re going to start with our youngest kids and their families to give them the support that they need.

And we’re going to take a hard look at what we need to do to make sure every child has the chance to attend good schools with good teachers no matter what their zip code is.
And we will reform our criminal justice system from end to end. It is wrong my friends that black men are far more likely to be stopped by police, charged, and sentenced to longer prison terms than white men for the same offenses.
When I launched this campaign back in April of 2015, the very first speech I gave was on the topic of criminal justice reform.
I said that and I have repeated throughout this campaign we must end the era of mass incarceration.
Too many families have been broken up. Too many communities have been so badly affected.
We have to reform these mandatory minimum in sentencing. We have to ban the box so people who have served their time can get a real chance at a good job and a fresh start.
And we have to restore trust between police and communities. We are all safer when everyone has respect for the law and everyone is respected by the law.
This is important of course to families and communities but it is important to all of us. This is about who we are as a country, about whether we really are a nation that believes in freedom and justice for all.
Too often, despite the progress we’ve made, we fall short of that goal. And we have to be honest about it.
I am determined to make this one of the most important projects of my presidency and I hope all of you will join me in doing that.
And I have to say, I have to say that is only part of what must be done because the leading cause of death for young African-American men more than the next nine causes combined is gun violence.
We have 33,000 people a year dying from guns. I just cannot tolerate this any longer.
I have met the families of those who’ve lost loved ones, who’ve lost the first graders from Sandy Hook, the Bible study church goers in Charleston, the club goers in Orlando, the movie goers in Aurora, Colorado, people going about their lives being cut down and cut senselessly short.
We have to take steps to reduce gun violence, and I know we can do that because the vast majority of Americans agree something must be done, and a very big majority of gun owners agree as well.
And we’ve got to make investments in those communities that are struggling, especially communities of color.
When I was in eastern North Carolina today and I was talking to people there who have been devastated by Hurricane Matthew, people who didn’t have very much to start with who lost everything.
Farmers with 100, 200 acres growing sweet potatoes wiped out. We’ve got to help everybody get ahead. I believe that the economy must work for everyone, not just those at the top.
And I think hardworking Americans deserve a raise and women deserve equal pay.

So, how are we going to do this? Well, we’re going to go where the money is.
Just as Bernie said, we’re going to make the wealthy pay their fair share and make sure Wall Street never threatens Main Street again.
And I can’t wait to work with Bernie to make public colleges and universities like NC State right here in Raleigh tuition free.
I know that this is another issue Pharrell feels passionately about as well.
If you’re struggling with student debt, we’re going to cut that and help you pay it back and get out from under it.
And in my plan is $25 billion fund specifically aimed at supporting historically black colleges and universities. Schools like Shaw and St. Augustine. Because you know they’ve produced some of the finest leaders in our country, and I want to make sure they keep doing that vital.
So we could go on all night. I mean, Bernie and I could really keep you here ’till breakfast because we get excited about what we can do.
But of course, we can’t do anything if you don’t get out and vote and get everybody you know to vote.
This is going to be one of the most consequential elections in our country’s history. You know that.
Because we are at a crossroads. It’s not just who my opponent is.
Pharrell is right. We don’t even have to mention his name very much. Right?
It’s not just about him, although there are some special features that certain raise deep concerns.
It’s about who we are. It’s about what we want, what we’re going to do to make our mark on our country at this time in our history.
I believe America’s best days are still ahead of us if we do what we’re supposed to do.
Every social movement, every economic advance has only come about because people were willing to work and sacrifice and keep pushing forward in the face of adversity.
It’s not easy.
It wasn’t easy to get the vote for women.
It wasn’t easy to have the final efforts made to ensure that the Civil Rights Act was enforced.
It wasn’t easy because there are powerful interests still trying to push us back and push us down.
And right now, you know because in this state a lot of effort was put into trying to suppress the vote. Right?
And some people got discouraged about that. I’ve met some people who say, “Well, you know, I don’t even know what they want. What kind of identification.” It gets a little discouraging.
You cannot get discouraged. Do not grow weary while doing good. Right?

It is now our turn – our turn – to stand up to people like your governor and your legislature who wanted to shut you down and push you back.
Because we are fundamentally a good nation and we need to make sure we deliver on that promise.
And in this election, President Obama’s entire legacy is on the line. Everything he has worked so hard to do against implacable opposition.
As the president said yesterday, everything we’ve done is dependent upon him being able to pass the baton to somebody who believes in the same things he believes in.
So I got to tell you, I’ve told the president I’m ready to take the baton but he’s going to have to bend over because he’s a lot taller than I am.
But I’m not just taking it. All of us are taking it.
We are ready to grab that baton to defend and build upon the progress of his presidency and that is why everyone must vote.
Early vote and vote on Tuesday if you can’t get to early vote.
More than 31 million Americans have already voted.
And listen to this. More than 2 million right here in North Carolina have already voted.
So make no mistake about it. You can make the difference not only in who you elect but in the agenda that those people will then get to work on.
I want you to hold me accountable. I want you to be my partners.
But I can’t do any of this – you know, when I was with our wonderful First Lady last week, she reminded the big crowd that we had in Winston-Salem that President Obama in 2008 won this state by about 14,000 votes.
If you break that down, you know what the difference between winning and losing is? Roughly two votes per precinct. So don’t let anybody tell you their vote doesn’t matter.
You’ve got to get everyone you know to come out and vote. You can vote early through this Saturday, Nov. 5th.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com to confirm your voting location.
Because the best way to repudiate the bigotry and the bluster and the bullying and the hateful rhetoric and discrimination is to show up with the biggest turnout in American history.
And then that will be the story of this election. Let’s make that one for the history books.
Please be part of what we’re doing in these next days.
And let’s make sure that we not only have a future we can believe in but one we can help create together, and demonstrate once and for all that love trumps hate!
Thank you all!

Thank you! Thank you!
Well, I got to tell you this is sure worth staying up for.
It is so great to be here in Raleigh, here at North Carolina State.
And I cannot imagine a better way of ending this campaign than having the opportunity to see all of you and to watch and listen to Lady Gaga, one of the most inventive, creative, and passionate performers whose range goes from A to Z and beyond.
And I was watching on the screen not only her perform, but all of you jumping and singing and waving. It was great!
Because you know what? That’s what I want for America and the young people of America – the joy, the passion, the intensity!
And you know, our longtime Jon Bon Jovi was with us. He was with us up in Philadelphia where he and Bruce Springsteen sang.
And Jon say, “Well, hey, I want to go down to Raleigh.” And so here he is.
And you know between now and the time the poll closes tomorrow, we are going to be living on a prayer.
I was really impressed when everybody’s went up saying you’d already voted. Well, go find somebody else who hasn’t voted. Okay?
Bring out your friends, your roommates, strangers on the street. Just stop and talk to them about what’s at stake in this election. Because North Carolina is key.
And it’s not only important for our election. Are you ready to elect Roy Cooper as your next governor?
Well, I sure hope so. I sure hope so.
And I hope you’re ready to elect Linda Coleman your next lieutenant governor.

And how about Dan Blue III for state treasurer?
And I really, really hope you will send Deborah Ross to Washington.
Now, we are all fired up when we were with the president and Michelle in Philadelphia.
You know, the president was talking about how absolutely consequential this election is and of course it is.
I really believe it’s the most important election of our lifetimes because we’ve never had a clearer choice. Never.
It is a choice between division or unity, between strong steady leadership or a loose cannon who could risk everything.
It’s a choice between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top.
And it is a choice that really goes to the heart of who we are as Americans.
What I saw before I came in and what I see now is a sense of potential, of joy.
There is no reason, my friends, why America’s best days are not ahead of us if we reach for them together.
We don’t have to accept a dark and divisive vision for America. Tomorrow you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America.
Our core values are being tested in this election but my faith in our future has never been stronger.
I love our country and I believe in the American people.
And I know if we bring everyone together, we can set goals and we can move toward them and we can feel that sense of accomplishment that comes with being part of something bigger than ourselves.

You know, one of the great privileges of criss-crossing the country as I have in this campaign is meeting remarkable people.
People who stand up against the odds.
People who like my late mother.
People who understand that everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get back up, whether you believe you can keep going.
Last night, in Manchester, New Hampshire, I had the honor of being introduced by an extraordinary man, Khizr Khan, whose son Captain Khan was killed serving our country in Iraq.
You may remember Mr. Khan’s speech at the Democratic Convention. And again last night, he reminded us of the responsibility we all share to protect and defend our Constitution.
The story of Captain Khan is one of courage in the face of danger. He was with his unit when he saw a suspicious vehicle. He told his men to stay back. He moved toward the vehicle to check it out. And the bomb went off.
He lost his life but everyone else in his unit survived. He was awarded the Bronze Star.
And this intensely personal tragedy that the Khan family experienced, becoming a Gold Star family, was one that they thought about, grieved over in the privacy of their home until they heard my opponent start talking about who was acceptable in America and who wasn’t.
The categories of people, starting with immigrants, including African-Americans and Latinos and POWs and Muslims, the list went on and on and on.
And it created in Mr. Khan a sense of despair because he asked himself – would his son have a place in Donald Trump’s America? Someone who paid the ultimate price in serving our country.
Well, we can answer that question tomorrow resoundingly. Yes, absolutely!

Think about how generations of Americans throughout our history have come together to meet the tests of their time.
Our parents, our grandparents, our great-grandparents defended democracy. They built the great American middle class. They marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and women’s rights, for LGBT rights, and the rights of people with disabilities.
And tomorrow, we face the task of our time. So remember, it’s not just my name or Donald Trump’s name on the ballot. It’s the kind of country we want. It’s every issue anyone cares about.
So if you believe America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote tomorrow.
If you believe we should make the biggest investments in new jobs since World War II, in infrastructure, in advanced manufacturing, clean energy, small business, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need more fairness in our economy, to raise the minimum wage, because no one who works full-time should still be in poverty, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need to do more to support working families with affordable child care, paid leave, and equal pay for women, then you have to vote.
And remember, when my opponent says every time I talk about these issues that I’m playing the woman’s card, well, you know what I say – deal me in!
And if you believe – if you believe all kids deserve good schools with good teachers no matter what zip code they live, you have to vote.
And if you believe college should be more affordable, you have to vote.

Bernie Sanders and I worked on a plan to make public colleges and universities tuition free if you earn less than $125,000 and debt free for everybody else.
And for the millions of Americans struggling with student debt, we are going to help you pay that down and pay that off.
If you believe in science and that we’ve got to address climate change, then you have to vote.
If you believe we need to reform our criminal justice system so that everybody is treated fairly, then you have to vote.
And if you believe – if you believe – we should never write discrimination into our laws, well, then you know – you know North Carolina, you’ve got to vote to get rid of HB 2.
Now, this is so energizing. We could keep going with a long list.
But here’s what else I want you to know. Good thing this election didn’t land during exams. That’s all I could say.
But tomorrow, tomorrow night this election will end. But I want you to understand our work together will be just beginning.
We have to bridge the divides in this country. As the Bible says, we have to repair the breaches.
We’ve got to be willing to start listening to each other again, respecting each other again.
And I want to thank Gaga because she has always stood for that fundamental principle of respecting everybody.

So, I want you to know and I want you to spread the word, I do want to be president for all Americans, not just some, not just for the people who support me and vote for me. I want to be president for everyone because we all have a role to play in building that better future for our country and for each of you.
So, if you haven’t voted yet, go to IWillVote.com. You can get all the info you need.
And you can still sign up to volunteer. Right? Go to HillaryClinton.com or text JOIN to 47246 or stop by one of our offices. We would welcome you to help make sure everybody gets out to vote tomorrow.
Because none of us want to wake up Wednesday morning and wish we had done more. Right?
And years from today when your kids and grandkids asked what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, you’ll be able to say you voted for a stronger, fairer, better America. An America where we build bridges, not walls. And where we prove conclusively that, yes, love trumps hate!
Thank you! Let’s go vote, North Carolina! God bless you. Thank you all!
