Thank you! Thank you! Thank you so much!
Wow! I am thrilled to be here at Carnegie Mellon University and to be in this great American city, as the mayor so rightly said, a city that has not only built bridges but moved into the future, demonstrating absolutely that you can have resilience if you are resourceful. If you don’t give up, you keep working together we can make it here in Pittsburgh and America.
I come out of a tradition of American progressivism which believes with all our hearts that we are one country, one people, one future, and we have to work with each other, lift each other up. We have to respect each other. We have to demonstrate by what we do that our diversity is an asset; it makes us the luckiest nation in the world to have the talents, the dreams, the aspirations of countless people.
But what I want to do if I’m so fortunate as to be your president is to knock down every barrier that stands in the way of any American being able to fulfill his or her God-given potential.
Every American deserves the building blocks of a personal future that will help us build America’s future.
So I’ve been very clear in this campaign: I take a back seat to nobody when it comes to being a progressive. But I do believe if you are a progressive, you need to make progress. You’ve got to get things done. You’ve got to bring people together. And that’s what I intend to do.
You see, I think there are three big tests the next president has to meet.
And if you think about it, you’re actually doing a big job interview. You want to know who are these people running for president? Where do they come from? What do they believe? What have they done in the past? What have they not just said but what have they accomplished? And can we count on them? Can we count on them to stand up for Americans and America?
And so here are these tests? Number one, can the next president actually deliver results that make differences – positive differences – in the lives of Americans of all ages? You’ve got to be able to ask that.
Well, I think one of the ways you’d look is “What have you done already? Who have you helped? Who have you fought for? Who have you taken on? Who have you stood up against?”
Now, the second test is “Can you keep us safe and continue to lead the world on behalf of American values?”
And the third is “Can you unify America? Can you bring us together? Can you end the divisiveness that has become all too common in our politics?”
So when I think about producing results, I think about my grandfather who came with his family as a young immigrant to northeast Pennsylvania, to Scranton.
And then his sons went to college – Penn State – and when they got out of college – I know it’s a little school up the road – when they got out of college, they had a better future and my dad was a small businessman
And my mom had a really tough upbringing but she got through it and she showed resilience and grit that was such a great example to me.
Now, every one of us has a story. Your own families – you’ve seen the struggles, maybe not in your time but in the prior generations.
And what’s been so extraordinary about America – this amazing experiment – is that we delivered. We weren’t perfect and we had a lot of problems to overcome, but we delivered and we never gave up and we just kept going.
And yes, sometimes we fell short of our own dreams but that didn’t stop us.
So what I want you to understand as I look out at all of you, particularly those in front of me, this election is much more about your future than anything else.
It’s about what kind of country will be waiting for you as you make your decisions over the next years and what kind of world will be out there.
So I want you to imagine with me what we can build together.
Imagine an economy that creates enough good paying jobs for every American to feel that he or she counts, to have the purpose and dignity that comes with a good job with a rising income.
Imagine that we put millions of Americans to work again, fixing our infrastructure – our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our airports. Not only what we can see but what we can’t see. No person in America should ever drink water contaminated by lead or anything else.
Imagine that we once again become the manufacturing engine of the world, that we are building what the world needs, what is creating our future.
I was just over at the Robotics Institute and I saw the extraordinary work they are doing in medicine, in manufacturing, in the kind of home care delivery that will be part of our future because of the work done at this great university by the faculty, by the students.
I want us once again to believe that we can make the future by making the goods that we then can export around the world.
I know we can do this because not only in the Robotics Institute but in many places across our country I have seen that future. I know what we can accomplish.
But we’ve got to make sure our tax code rewards that kind of work. We invest in research again at the level that we should from the federal government.
So that’s why for both infrastructure and manufacturing, I’ve laid out very specific plans about how to do this.
We need a national infrastructure bank that can continue to fund the kind of work that needs to be done in our country and in manufacturing.
I have a $10 billion plan that will invest in the kind of inventions and productivity increases that can ride out of this great university and put people to work.

I care passionately about this because I actually listen to the scientists.
And when you ask the Republicans who are running, you know, they all say “Well, I’m not a scientist.”
But I bet Carnegie Mellon could help teach them about climate change and what it means for our country.
But it’s not only because we face this existential threat but because there are economic opportunities if we put our heads together and work to create them.
I was there in 2009 – President Obama and I had to crash a meeting in Copenhagen during one of the climate conferences. Literally had to stalk the Chinese and the Indians.
They kept telling us they couldn’t meet with us. They said, “Well, we’re on the way to the airport.”
On the way to the airport? Meeting’s not over.
So we sent out scouts through this huge convention center and word came back. They’re way in the back. They’re having a secret meeting. So the president and I said, “Well, I think we’d like to attend.”
So off we went and they had been dodging and avoiding us for days. So we marched up those stairs and those security guards were saying, “No! No! No!” and President Obama and I just kept smiling, “Hi! Hi! Hi!”
And the room they were in was all, you know, covered with curtains so you couldn’t see who was in there. And so the president just kind of went up and pushed through the security guard’s arm. And then his arm went back up and so I ducked under the security guard’s arm.
And we got into the room, and the president said, “We’ve been looking for you.”
And then we pulled up chairs and then we sat down and we said, “Let’s reach some agreements so we can start to move the world toward actually facing up to dealing with and reversing the effects of greenhouse gas emissions.”
And that’s why I was thrilled when 195 countries signed the agreement in Paris.
My opponent said oh, no, he didn’t like it. It wasn’t good enough.
You know, don’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We finally got 195 countries onboard.
So now, here’s our challenge. Some country is going to be the 21st century clean energy super power.
As things stand right now, I think it’s going to be either Germany, China, or us. I want it to be us. And I want Carnegie Mellon to help lead the way.
And I’ll tell you what. I’ve set two big goals. I’ve set a lot of them about climate.
I want a North American climate agreement. We need to be working with Canada and Mexico.
As we re-do our grid, we need to be understanding how we’re going to challenge states on top of the president’s clean power plan to go even further.
And I’ve said let’s have half a billion more solar panels deployed by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to power every home by the end of my second term.
These are jobs that have to be done right here in Pennsylvania and across the United States. And these are opportunities for us.
And I really challenge all of you to think about what each of you can do to contribute to our efforts to take on what is the 21st century global challenge.
Now, I believe too that as we move forward with these big opportunities, we’ve got to do more for small businesses, especially to help young people start their small businesses, follow their dreams.
I have been told and I believe it to be true that Carnegie Mellon has the best return on federal dollar research money coming into any higher ed institution in the country.
I want to unleash that. I want to see millions of new American small businesses because that is where most of the new jobs will come from. So I want to open up opportunities for you.
I also want our economies to be fairer. So imagine that people who work full-time get paid a minimum wage that doesn’t end up in poverty at the end of the year.
And imagine that finally women get equal pay for the work we do.
This is not just a women’s issue. This is a family issue.
If you have a wife or a mother or a sister or a daughter who’s working and they’re not being paid fairly and equally, when they’re at the store, when they’re at a supermarket checkout line, the cashier doesn’t say, “Okay, you only have to pay 78 cents on the dollar.”
Or if you’re an African-American woman, “You only have to pay 68 cents on the dollar.”
Or if you’re a Latino woman, “You only have to pay 58 cents on the dollar.”
Last time I checked there was no woman’s discount for failing to get equal pay in the first place.
Now, everything I’ve just said, the Republicans are against. Every single thing.
And you know, I’m proud that we’ve run an issue-oriented campaign in the Democratic primary.
As far as I can tell, the Republicans have run an insult-oriented campaign.
But make no mistake about it. They are going to do everything they can to take back the White House.
And if they get the White House plus a Republican Congress, we will not recognize our country.
This is one of the most consequential elections. We have to build on the progress that President Obama has made and we’ve got to go further.
And here’s one of those inconvenient facts that you might want to share with your Republican friends. Our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
I mean, we don’t have to go back to ancient history. During the 1990s under my husband’s presidency at the end of eight years, we had 20 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody, not just people on the top – middle class families, working families, poor families. The median family income went up 17% in those eight years. And the median African-American income went up 33% because there were so many jobs.
And we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus. Pretty hard to beat that record.
But I’ll tell you what, you know, the Republicans – you give them credit for consistency. They are consistently wrong when it comes to the economy.
So in comes George W. Bush. I was in the Senate representing New York. I stood up on the Senate floor. I said they don’t want to take us back before the Clinton years. They want to take us back Franklin Roosevelt. They want to take us back before Teddy Roosevelt. They were slashing taxes. They were absolutely taking their eyes off the financial markets and the mortgage markets.
And we know what happened. The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. And I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for digging us out of the ditch that the Republicans put us in.
Well, we’re not going to let them get away with it.
Because it may be uncomfortable for them but we have history, the facts, and common sense on our side.
So that’s why I want us to build on the progress we’ve made but go further.
And a key to an economy I imagine that we can create is education. And I think we have to start with early childhood education.
When I got out of law school, I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund. And working for children and giving children the chance and evening the odds for every child is really at the core of what I believe we must do.
So for me, making sure that every kid has a chance to fulfill that potential is critical to our economy, critical to our democracy.
And that’s why we need universal pre-K and why we need to help kids so that when they get to school, they’re prepared and ready to actually learn.
And when we’re looking at elementary and secondary education, I want to be a good partner with our nation’s public school teachers. I want to give them the support that they need.
You know, before I came out here, I had the incredible honor of meeting a family – a family of a young high school student from here in Pittsburgh who went to Woodland High School. Her name was Kaylee McDowell [sp].
And I met the family because Kaylee had been an ardent supporter of mine. And she’d come to meet me when I’d be here in Pittsburgh even when she was just a little girl, and it was her dream to someday go into politics herself.
So tragically, Kaylee had a disease that just wasn’t properly treated in the very beginning, and she passed away just a few days ago.
And the school actually called off – the school district called off school because she was the kind of young woman that everybody knew and everybody liked. She was popular but she also was kind to the kids who weren’t.
And the teachers told her parents who I met with, her grandparents, her aunts and uncle, and her little brother that they were sure that Kaylee would have realized her dreams.
And I wanted to just mention her because she won’t be able to fulfill those dreams for the kind of world, the kind of country she wanted to see. But every one of us can do our part.
And for those in education, it is such an important role and I want to be a good partner. And I want to give young people the chance to be able to afford to go to college without drowning in debt. Every single young person.
I know we can do this because right now it’s just not fair. It’s wrong. Too many kids are being shut out. Or they start and they can’t finish. Or they never graduate. Not because they’re not trying, not because they’re not able – they can’t afford it.
And then if they do get out, they often end up with a huge debt.
How many of you have student debt?
Yeah, exactly. Well, I want you to be able to get out from under it. So here’s what I want to do.
In addition to having debt-free tuition for people going to college, if you come out with debt, I want you to be able to refinance that debt to save thousands of dollars, to get it down just like the way you can refinance a mortgage or a car payment.
And we’re going to revamp the whole student aid industry because I want people to have the chance I did. Because when I got out of law school and I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, I made very little money. But I didn’t care; I wanted to do that work. But I was also fortunate because I was in a plan at that time where I could pay back my debt as a percentage of my income.
I want you to have that chance.
And then I want to end your debt after a certain number of years. Maybe 20 years you’re done even if you still have unpaid debt ahead of you.
And we are going to get the harassing bill collectors out of your life and we’re going to end the practice of the government making money off of lending money to kids to go to school.
And we’re going to continue to work on the Affordable Care Act to make sure that we get the costs down and we expand the opportunities under it and take on high prescription drug costs.
Now, again, everything I’ve just said, Republicans don’t agree with.
And they also want to limit our rights – all of our rights.
I want you to know where I stand. I will defend a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions.
And I will defend Planned Parenthood against the partisan attacks that the Republicans are throwing at them.
And I will defend marriage equality and end discrimination against the LGBT community.
I will defend voting rights which are under attack by states across our union.
And I will do everything I can to either reverse or pass a constitutional amendment to absolutely end [Citizens United] and its corruption on our political system.
You know, a lot of people say they’re against it and I take it really personally. It was about me. It was one of the many, many, many, many attacks that the right wing has waged against me by this group Citizens United.
And they were, you know, once again making stuff up about me and running, you know, pretend documentaries about me. And they were told they couldn’t do it.
So they appealed to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court said “Oh, yes of course. Speech equals money. So the more money you have, the more speech you have.”
Somehow I don’t think that was part of the logic behind the First Amendment.
So I think this is truly one of the worst decisions ever in our history.
We’re also going to work hard on a range issues the Republicans are also against.
I do not believe we should privatize Social Security; we have to extend the life of the Social Security trust fund.
We should fix the problems with the Veterans Administration, not privatize it.
We should keep working for comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
And we should bring the country together to stand up to the gun lobby to get common sense gun safety reforms.
So we have a big agenda. And it’s important when we imagine that future we want for you to think “Okay, who can deliver?”
You know, before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare. Right?
I have been in the trenches fighting for opportunity, for justice, for fairness, for equality my entire adult life. And I am proud to continue that fight because it’s at the core of who we are as Americans.
So, we need to stand up and make sure our voices and our votes count.
And the second test is “Can you keep us safe?”
And here you have to recognize you’re voting for a president and a commander-in-chief.
National security is not an afterthought. It is a core responsibility of the presidency. And it is essential that we do everything we can to lead the world, to bring it together, to further our interests, advance our values, and keep us safe at home.
And as a senator from New York, I wanted to bring him to justice.
And so I advised the president to go forward but the president had to make the decision. And President Obama made the right decision.
Now, finally, the third test is “Can you bring us together?” And boy, do we need that right now.
You know, when I listened to the rhetorics coming out of Donald Trump’s campaign it is deeply disturbing because it is intended to set people against one another. It is intended to incite prejudice and paranoia. And it is even intended to incite violence as we have seen.
It is so contrary to who we are and who we must be if we’re going to own the future.
And I intend our country to own the future, to make the future, to be the future.
So let me tell you I will go anywhere, anytime, meet with anyone to find common ground. I did it as First Lady. I did it as senator. I did it as Secretary of State.
You know, we weren’t successful on health care reform, I got back up and said, “Okay, what can we do?” You always have to look and determine “What can we do?” That is the progressive tradition.
So I worked with Democrats and Republicans and we created the Children’s Health Insurance Program and eight million children got health care for the first time in many instances.
And when I was in the Senate, I worked with I think practically every Republican. I worked to find that common ground. Sometimes it was only a sliver of ground.
But that’s our obligation in public life. We don’t have the luxury as some do in dictatorships or religious theocracies to say “My way or no way.” That’s not the way a democracy is supposed to work.
So we made progress. Sometimes way too slowly to satisfy me.
And when I was Secretary of State, I helped to negotiate a nuclear arms treaty with Russia to reduce the number of nuclear weapons on both sides, which remains the biggest threat – the biggest immediate threat – that our world faces. And we got the agreement signed but we had to get two-thirds vote in the Senate.
That meant I had to get 13 Republicans to vote. And so I started working on it. I just kept working and working and working. It’s kind of a dull, boring but necessary kind of work. You know, you just get up everyday and you think, “How can I push this forward an inch or two? Maybe I can even get six or seven inches if I’m lucky?”
Well, I got those votes. We got that treaty. The world is safer because we lowered the number of nuclear weapons in Russia and in the United States.
So here is what I’m asking you. I’m asking you to imagine this future with me because I want your support of course in this upcoming primary on April 26th. But I also will want it if I’m fortunate enough to be the nominee in November.
But I’ll tell you when I really want it – I really want it when I’m sworn in president and we all begin to work together to fix these problems, to make the future happen.
So, Carnegie Mellon, Pittsburgh, Western PA, please come support me on April 26th and I will fight for and support you for the next four to eight years.
Thank you and God bless you!
