
But it’s also as we now know very clearly the way that the Republicans are trying to bring my – as they admit – poll numbers down.
And so I’m very committed to answering questions, being as transparent as possible. I’m scheduled to testify before their committee, which we now know is nothing but a partisan exercise.
So it’s really both, Savannah. It’s both “Hey, you know what? Turn the clock back. It was allowed. I was thinking about many other things than my email account when I became Secretary of States because we had so many issues.”
And I have gone further than anybody that I’m aware in American history. Now it’s not a long history because we haven’t had emails that long. But as long as we’ve had them, I’ve gone longer and farther to try to be as transparent as possible. Nobody else has done that.
And if by the time this is over, I’m a little – you know – I’m a little embarrassed that the emails were so boring in many instances, but they will all be out there; people will be able to make their decisions.
I knew the Ambassador. I identified him. I asked him to go there. I asked the President to nominate him.
There have been seven investigations led mostly by Republicans in the Congress and they were non-partisan and they reached conclusions that, first of all, I and nobody did anything wrong but there were changes we could make.
This committee was set up as they have admitted for the purpose of making a partisan political issue out of the deaths of four Americans. I would have never done that, and if I were President and there were Republicans or Democrats who were thinking about that, I would have done everything to shut it down.
If they’re going to have it still running, I’ll be there. And I’m looking forward to answering questions about the real things when I’m there and I’m looking forward to having a chance to explain everything we’ve done, everything I’ve asked to happen. But it’s not appropriate what they’ve done from obviously their own admission.
So you know, look, I’ve been around this political situation for a long time but some things are just beyond the pale.
And I’m happy to go if it still is in operation to testify. I’m happy to turn over my emails.
I’ve gone further than anybody ever has. That’s okay. I’m willing to do that.
But the real issue here is what happened to four brave Americans.
