And I also have come out in favor of guaranteeing that unaccompanied children have government sponsored counsel so that as they go through the process, they will not be lost in the process, confused by the process, and will have a chance to tell their story.
It is important to put this in the broader context, which is what I’ve tried to do.
We have to have comprehensive immigration reform. But how we implement our immigration laws does have ability for the executive to make choices. And I would prioritize criminals, people who are plotting or planning or taking action that is against our public safety or our property. Those are the kinds of people that would be on my list.
We have to change the immigration, asylum, and refugee laws.
And right now until we do, we have to try to figure out how to handle this very large group of predominately women and children who are coming north.
So, we have to be sensitive and humane in the application of our laws.
And we also have to do a lot more – and this is where I think I have a particular passion – we have to do a lot more to help those countries in Central America get over some of the challenges of violence, criminality, drug cartels that is really the impetus behind it.
Because you know that this year we had no net immigration from Mexico, and in fact, Mexicans in America are actually going back to Mexico. Now, why is that? Because there is despite all the problems as we still know exist there’s better economic opportunity, there is better stability for families.
And similarly, I recall very well the good help that America gave to the Colombian people to overcome their decades of civil war and the horrendous behavior of the drug cartels so now Colombia is doing better.
We need to focus in particular on Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador.
And I would certainly – I’m going to end private detention centers. I’m going to end family detention both of which I think are not in keeping with our values as Americans.
I cannot sit here and tell you I have a blanket rule about who or who won’t ever be let into the country to stay because it has to be done individually by individually.
What I don’t like are the mass roundups and the raids that just pick people up and send them off in the middle of the night and that should end.
Let’s start with the most contentious issues – criminal justice reform, policing reform, incarceration reform.
And I believe strongly that this has to be the highest priority of the president.
President Obama’s policing commission has some very good suggestions that I would want to build on.
But we have to do everything possible in reaching out and listening directly to communities that are being affected, whose trust has been betrayed and broken, whose families are desolated by the large numbers of missing men in the community.
And I have a very specific set of recommendations about what I would do.
When it comes to arrests, we’ve got to have a much clearer set of standards because African-American men and Latino men in particular get arrested more quickly for doing the same thing as a white man does. And then it continues through the process – more likely to be charged, more likely to be convicted, more likely to be incarcerated. And the figures don’t lie. We know what they are.
But we have to bring those to a broader audience because it’s such a violation of what we say our values are – you know, equal before the law. Well, we have systemic racism and bias that is implicit in our system.
And unless we begin to go after that and expose it and end it, we won’t solve this problem.
But in addition to the really difficult, painful pieces of reform needed in criminal justice and incarceration, we’ve got to disrupt the school to prison pipeline. We need a cradle to college pipeline. We need more job opportunities.
I want to incentivize more investments in the most disinvested communities in our country – inner cities, poor rural areas, Native American reservations.
We have some places where the poverty is so appalling. It’s such a rebuke to who we say we are and what we say we stand for.
So it’s not just dealing with the criminal justice issue because I want to end the incarceration of people for low-level offenses, for non-violent offenses. I want to divert them from the criminal justice system.
We need far more opportunities for people to stay out of jail or prison while they, you know, deal with let’s say a drug problem or a mental health problem, which is one of the main reasons people end up in jail and prison. And when you look at it, it’s not only wrong and dehumanizing, it doesn’t make economic sense.
If you have a system where we should have treatment recovery programs across America so that when somebody is in and out of the jail or the emergency room because of alcohol or because of drugs they get a chance to go into a different kind of setting than a jail. And I’ve seen those. I saw a great example in Reno, Nevada started by the sheriff’s office and Catholic Charities.
And what I want is to make the case it’s the right thing to do but it’s also a lot cheaper.
So if I can’t get to you because it’s the humanitarian, moral thing to do, it costs $3,000 to divert somebody; it costs $30,000 to put them in jail or prison. Now, you make the choice.
And it is just hard to justify because if we have a right – and I think people have a right to health; we’re working on trying to make that real in people’s lives – but certainly the full range of reproductive health rights that women should have includes access to safe and legal abortions.
But if state governments, if politicians use their power to try to restrict that right, well-off people are still going to have it. You know, we know that. But a lot of poorer women, rural women, isolated, far from a place where they can get services are going to be denied.
That’s why this case is going to the Supreme Court out of Texas is so important because the Texas government has forced the closing of Planned Parenthood clinics on totally inaccurate medical requirements and it’s a huge state and it’s going to be much more difficult for poor women to exercise that right.
So yeah, I think we should do everything we can to repeal the Hyde Amendment. I think it’s been a blockade.
I think what’s happening is that because of some of the actions that are going on in states and because of the Supreme Court decision, this is in the news now. So anybody who might have thought “Well, this is settled. This is ancient history” is realizing no, maybe it isn’t, and it’s important to do what we can to raise the visibility of these issues and to demonstrate the important connections that they have in people’s lives. Whether or not you ever exercise that right, it is something that should be available.
And I feel especially passionate about this because I’ve traveled to so many countries. You know, I’ve been in a hospital in northeastern Brazil where the doctors told me half the women are so happy they just had a baby, half the women are here because of botched abortions.
I went to Romania where the prior communist dictatorship actually legally required every woman to have five children and the secret police would follow to make sure that you weren’t trying to do anything, even birth control, to prevent that. And what was the result? Thousands of abandoned babies, orphanages filled with little kids and terrible consequences.
And of course, I went and spoke in Beijing in 1995 against forced sterilization.
So, to me, reproductive rights are a fundamental human right. No government should interfere. They should not tell a woman what she can do with her right and her body and we have to stand up against this movement that is currently being pushed across our country…
And many of those threats are fueled by the gun violence we face every single day where 90 Americans are killed by guns – homicides, suicides, tragic, avoidable accidents.
So one of the reasons why I’m so adamant and so much in support of President Obama’s policies that he’s rolled out is I just think as a nation we cannot sit idly by while 33,000 people a year die from gun violence.
I also believe that we have to take any form of violence and particularly organized violence seriously.
So, yes, I believe there are all kinds of underground movements and efforts in our country to try to use violence or assert certain beliefs that I find often lead to violence.
So let’s take some of the white extremism that we see. You know, I remember very well going to Oklahoma City and seeing the ruins of the federal building where as I recall 168 Americans, including 19 children, were murdered by a bomb, by a guy who hated the government. That’s terrorism as far as I’m concerned.
I also think when you have communities terrorized by gangs so that parents are afraid to send their kids out, afraid to go out after school.
I remember that beautiful young woman, Hadiya Pendleton, from Chicago. She performed at President Obama’s second inauguration, came home, hanging out with her friends across from her school in Chicago, gets murdered. Stray bullet, intentional bullet, the fact is murdered.
I think that when you have police violence that terrorizes communities, that doesn’t show the respect that you’re supposed to have from protecting people in your authority, that can feel also terrorizing.
So there are so many different kinds of potential violent acts and we have to go after all of them. We have to stop them all. We cannot let anybody live in fear. And it becomes higher profile when it’s tied to international terrorism because that seems like it’s coming from the outside and it’s not homegrown. Well, I saw homegrown terrorism in Oklahoma City and I saw foreign terrorism in New York City and I saw people grieving over the loss of their loved ones and at some point, we all have to come together as a country again and stand against violence and do something to get the guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them no matter who they are.
For me, look, I was born white, middle class in the middle of America. I went to good public schools. I had a very strong supportive family. I had a lot of great experiences growing up. I went to a wonderful college. I went to law school.
I never really knew what was or what wasn’t part of the privilege. I just knew that I was a lucky person and that being lucky was in part related to who I am, where I’m from, and the opportunities I had.
But I’ll tell you when I first realized that I was privileged both because I was white and because I was economically stable. I had two experiences – the first and they both came through my church.
The first when I was about 11 years old, our church asked if some of us would volunteer to babysit for the children of migrant workers on Saturdays because the families had to go into the field and the older kids had to go with them, and there was nobody left to watch the little kids. And I and a couple of my friends volunteered.
And I remember in those days, Chicago was surrounded by fields. Doesn’t look like it anymore but it was. And it was on the migrant journey from Mexico up through Texas up through the Midwest ended up in Michigan but at certain points in the summer harvest folks were in Chicago area.
So I remember going out there taking care of these adorable little kids and I kind of thought, well, they’re very different from me; they’ve got different experiences but they were just little kids.
And then at the end of the day, at the end of this long road because there were all these sort of housing units, at the end of this long road, the bus stopped and the parents and the older brothers and sisters got out, and when the little kids saw them, they just dropped everything and began running for their mothers and their fathers, holding their arms out.
And I remember like it was yesterday watching that and I was thinking, “I used to do that with my father.” And I’m watching these kids and their families. They have to work so hard and the place they live is not very nice, and I just felt, you know, I have a different kind of life. I didn’t call it a particular name but it was a different life and I knew that.
So first question. Would you commit right now not to use the words “illegal” or “illegals” to refer to undocumented immigrants?
So yet we do need to have secure borders and what that will take is a combination of technology and physical barriers.
…Well, I’ve voted for border security and some of it was a fence. I don’t think we ever called it a wall. Maybe in some places it was a wall. But it was aimed at controlling our borders.
And I think we have to get comprehensive immigration reform with a path to full citizenship. But I also think we need to keep our border secure. I don’t see a contradiction there.
What I object to about what the Republicans are saying is that they always combine or at least the person you’re referring to he always combine building a wall and deporting 11 or 12 million people so they’re on the other side of the wall.
Now, that to me is not only foolish, it’s offensive. And so part of the challenge is yes, we need border security and at the same time we need comprehensive immigration reform. We have to do both.
But I do think we’ve got to stabilize Social Security, and that’s going to take some real effort. So I have the same plan but paid for by closing loopholes and raising taxes on the wealthy. So I think my plan is a better approach to get to the same objective.
And I do think that we’ve got to deal with numerous problems simultaneously, and therefore until we stabilize social security and make sure it will be there and the promise will be fulfilled, I don’t want to do anything with the payroll tax.
I have said number one and I have capped deductions to 28% with the exception of charitable contributions, closing loopholes like the carried interest loophole that hedge fund managers use to pay a lower tax rate than their secretaries do, the Buffett rule – a 30% tax on everybody making $1 million or more – and then what I call a fair share surcharge of a 4% surcharge on incomes over $5 million.
Because we are so out of whack right now, and the reason I’ve said I don’t want to raise middle class taxes is most middle class families haven’t recovered from the Great Recession. You know, they haven’t recovered from their wages not going up. They oftentimes are working two jobs now instead of one job. Their family wealth has not recovered. They maybe lost a home and now they’re renting because they can’t get back into the home market.
So, I think I have a very clear plan that I’ve outlined about where the money will come from to provide paid leave, which is a high priority of mine.
