…We want people to be able to fulfill their responsibilities but we don’t want it to be so hard that the debt they carry interferes with them being able to start a small business or to buy a home or even to be able to get married, which unfortunately is the case today.
…Now, this election is about the choices we make as a country. And those choices will shape our future for our children and our grandchildren.
I’ve always believed that in America if you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead. That is the basic bargain that has always set our country apart.
I want to make sure that we strengthen that bargain and that it holds true for the next generation and the next and the next.
Now, thanks to the hard work of people across America, our country has come back from the worst recession of our lifetimes.
So we’re standing again but we’re not running the way that we should.
Corporate profits are near record highs but most paychecks have barely budged. Costs for everything from child care to prescription drugs have also gone up. They are rising faster than wages.
It’s no wonder that many Americans feel like the deck is stacked in favor of those at the top.
So we’ve got to do better. We’ve got to get incomes rising again so more hardworking families can afford a middle class life.
That is the central economic challenge of our time, and it will be my mission everyday that I serve as President.
We need strong growth. We need fair growth. We need long-term growth.
We want a new era of prosperity that is shared by all, that works for everyone.
So today, I want to talk about one of the most important ways we can ease the burden on families and one of the single biggest ways we can actually raise incomes by making college affordable and available to every American.
Now, for many millions of Americans, a college has been the ticket to a better life.
My grandfather worked his entire life in the lace mills in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He started as a teenager. He retired at 65.
But he always believed by working that hard, all those hours, that life would be better for his children.
And my dad made it to college, made it to Penn State, made it to the football team back in the ’30s.
And then when he got out, he was able to start his own small business. He worked really hard. He scrimped and he saved.
But that made a huge difference in our lives.
Then my parents saved for years for college. They knew that that would be one of the ways that they could set me on a path to a better future.
College still holds that promise. A lot has changed in our country but that hasn’t.
Parents who never had the chance to go to college themselves like my mother dreamed of seeing their children get that degree literally from the moment they are born. That’s what they’re hoping for. That’s why they emphasize the importance of education.
High schoolers, even middle schoolers, are taking college prep courses today. Some are even studying for the SAT.
Full-time workers are taking courses online even if that means heading straight from an eight-hour shift to a pile of homework. If that’s what it takes to get a better job to give their kids better than they had, they will do it.
But here’s the problem: States are slashing education budgets and colleges keep raising prices.
In-state tuition and fees for public colleges increased by 42% between 2004 and 2014. Whose incomes raised 42%?
So, families are left with a very painful choice. Either you say, “We can’t afford it”, postpone or even pass up the opportunities that a degree offers. Or you do whatever you can to pay for it even if that means going deeply into debt.
Now, for most people, the return on investment of a college degree is still worth it, and I want to emphasize that. On average, people with four-year degrees earn over a half a million dollars more over their careers than people with high school degrees.
But student debt increasingly holds people back. 40 million Americans have student loans. Together, they owe $1.2 trillion.
And New Hampshire students, as we’ve heard, are carrying one of the highest debt loads in the country.
Now, millions of Americans are delinquent or in default. Even if they do everything they can, they just can’t keep up.
I was just talking to some young people back before I came out and, you know, one was saying “You know, it’s a real stretch. I just hope I never get sick. I just hope I don’t get laid off from my job. I just hope there’s not a family emergency.”
So, yes, people are doing everything possible to pay those loans, but sometimes life and fate intervene.
Now, the cost of this debt is real and not just on balance sheets but in people’s lives and future.
When I talk to young people here in New Hampshire, they tell me they put off buying homes or changing jobs or starting a business.
I met one young woman in the back who has a great job in Massachusetts. She can’t afford to live there. So she commutes two hours each way to live with her parents because she otherwise can’t make it work – to have that job, starting off in her career and to pay back her debts.
I have met parents and grandparents who have co-signed loans and ended up draining their savings or ruining their credit because they tried to help the next generation.
There are students who take out loans to pay for an expensive degree from a for-profit institution only to find little support once they actually enroll or they graduate and discover that when it comes to getting the jobs they were promised, their degree is not worth what they thought.
Then there are the students who start college but never finish. They’re left with debt and no degree to show for it. The worst of both worlds. Over 40% of college students still haven’t graduated after six years and many never do.
It’s time to show some tough love to colleges and universities that let significant numbers of students fall behind and drop out year after year.
Here’s the bottom line: College is supposed to help people achieve their dreams but more and more paying for college actually pushes those dreams further and further out of reach. That is a betrayal of everything college is supposed to represent.
And you know, it’s also about whether or not America creates the greatest workforce in the world in this century just like we did in the last century.
The rest of the world, make no mistake about it, is working as hard as they can to outdo us.
China is on a path to double the number of students enrolled in college by 2030, which means they’ll have nearly 200 million college graduates – more than our entire workforce.
Now, I believe American workers can out work and out innovate anybody in the world if given the training and education they deserve.
So, that’s why today I’m proposing it’s time for a new college compact where everyone does their part. We need to make a quality education affordable and available to everyone willing to work for it without saddling them with decades of debt.
As I’ve been talking with people, I’ve certainly reached out to students and families, educators, legislators, experts, including young, progressive activists who put the issue of debt free college and affordability at the top of the agenda.
Today, I’m announcing my plan to put college within reach for everyone. We’re calling it the New College Compact. We’re posting it on our website, Facebook, Medium, SnapChat, just about everywhere we can think of.
Or you can text the word “College” to the number 47246 to learn more.
I hope you’ll check it out.
But for now, here are the basics.
Under the New College Compact, no student should have to borrow to pay tuition at a public college or university.
Schools will have to control their costs and show more accountability to their students.
No more 42% increases over 10 years – way above the rate of inflation of anything else.
States will have to meet their obligations to invest in higher education.
The federal government will increase its investment in education and will not profit any longer off of student loans.
And everyone who already has student debt will be able to refinance it at lower rates.
Now, this is my plan and I know it’s ambitious. But I think we should be ambitious because it’s also achievable and it would make a big difference in people’s lives.
The New College Compact comes down to two big goals.
First, we will make sure that cost won’t be a barrier. Under my plan, tuition will be affordable for every family. Students should not have to take out loans for tuition at their state’s public colleges and universities.
And we will make sure the federal government and the states step up to help pay the cost so the burden doesn’t fall on families alone.
But here is an important additional point I want to underscore about my compact.
Tuition these days is not the only problem. The cost of living and attending college has also been increasing.
So under my plan, students who qualify for Pell Grants will be freed up to use them for living expenses and middle class students will [inaudible audio]…for living expenses as well.
We’re also going to make community college free. That’s President Obama’s plan and we’re adopting it.
If students [start in community] college and transfer to a four-year school, we will make sure that your credits count and your transition is seamless.
And we want more community colleges to offer two-year degrees and certificate programs that are valued by employers so students know that if they do the work, they are in good shape to get a job.
We will work closely with the historically black colleges and universities and with Hispanic-serving institutions because they serve a lot of very bright and needy students.
We’ll offer special help to college students who are already parents because when you help parents get an education, you’re also helping their children.
And we’ll make a promise to students who perform national service. If you are willing to spend years tutoring America’s kids or cleaning up our parks or helping communities hit by disasters, we will guarantee that you can attend your public university or college debt-free.
So that’s the first big goal, and here’s the second: We will make sure that debt won’t hold anyone back.
So for the millions of Americans, including many of you who already have student debt, my plan will give you the chance to refinance at lower interest rates.
It just makes sense. If you can refinance your mortgage or your car loan, you should be able to refinance your student loan too.
It is just wrong that people are locked into college loans at 8%, 9% or even 10% interest.
Now, if you do end up taking out a loan, for example, to go to a private college, we will cut your interest rates so that the government never makes a profit off your loan.
And we will make it easier for you to enroll in income-based repayment programs so you’ll never have to pay more than 10% of what you make.
And your debt will only last for a fixed period of time. It will not hang over your head forever.
We are also going to help borrowers who are in default get back on their feet to meet their obligations.
And we will make sure colleges and universities have more skin in the game. If they load students up with debt for programs that don’t lead to good-paying jobs, students and taxpayers should not be the only ones left holding the bag. The colleges deserve a certain amount of the responsibility and they will have to fulfill it.
And we will crack down on predatory schools, lenders, and bill collectors. If you defraud students, over-charge veterans or mislead borrowers, we’re going to do everything we can to hold you accountable and stop you.
I also want to strengthen the GI Bill so more veterans can get their degree.
And I want to make sure that colleges spend federal dollars on things that benefit students like teaching and research not marketing campaigns or big salaries for administrators.
And finally, I want to encourage innovation. You know, people are increasingly rebooting their careers through online programs, yet many students can’t use federal student aid to pay for those programs.
If earning online badges, specializations, or nano-degrees help people improve their job prospects, we should make that option easier and more affordable.
And under my plan, more students will be allowed to use student aid to pay for high quality programs, particularly online, and we will make sure that rules about accreditation don’t keep out promising online education companies. We want to keep quality high without stifling innovation.
Now, the reason I call this a college compact is because it goes both ways. Everyone is going to have to step up.
We can’t solve the problem of rising costs and rising debt just by throwing more money at the problem.
We can’t expect the federal government just to pay the bill for free. That’s not how America works.
States will have to start investing in education again. Colleges will have to do better by their students. Students will have to make a contribution of working 10 hours a week. Americans will have to work hard to put themselves through school to out-learn and out-hussle our competitors just like we’ve always had.
So, from my perspective, this is just common sense.
If you’re going to hear people in this campaign talk to you about improving the economy, helping incomes rise, then ask them what they’re going to do to make college affordable and begin to deal with the debt burden that is holding too many Americans back.
I want every young person in America to know that if you work hard, you can get ahead and I want America to have your back, just like it did in the past, just like so many of us believe.
I had a loan to go to law school. It was a government loan. It was at a very low interest rate, and I paid it back as a percentage of my income over time. So did my husband. We both worked hard. We worked all the time. Extra jobs. Extra opportunities to earn some money in order to pay our way.
But that help from our government made a huge difference.
So I’m asking people – you’ve got to keep doing your part. You’ve got to work hard. You have to do everything you can to make your contribution but then we should have your back.
I want every parent to know that his or her child can get a degree or you can get one yourself.
That’s the country I want to help build for this generation and all generations to come, and I look forward to talking to you about it right now.
Thank you all. Thank you so much. Thank you all…
And I feel very strongly about this. Some of you have heard me talk about it before. Because we can do everything I’ve just outlined and get more kids into afforable college and get the debt load down and we can do a lot to work with great schools like this and others to really help more kids succeed. But those zero to five years set the pattern and too many kids come to school behind already.
And this is not something that I’m saying just because I care deeply about it and I’m a new grandmother and I’m reading, talking, and singing all the time to Charlotte. It’s because the brain research shows that. 80% of your brain is physically formed by the age of three.
And kids who are stimulated, kids who have good early childhood programs, kids whose families who have the time, the energy, and the understanding how to help prepare their own kids, they’ll do well.
But we know also from the research that by the time kids get to kindergarten, kids like my granddaughter will have heard 30 million more words than children from less advantaged backgrounds. And so the achievement gap will literally start on the first day of kindergarten.
And for those of you who are teachers, and I hope we have a lot of teachers here, you understand this. You know you’ll do your very, very best in the classroom and in the school and try to help every kid fulfill his or her God-given potential but it would be a lot more successful if we had universal pre-K and good early childhood in our country.
And the second yes is both as a First Lady, as a Senator, and a Secretary of State, I worked very hard on the Millenium Development Goals. I worked very hard to make sure that our country, which is such a generous country, did what we could to help the smallest, most vulnerable of children.
And we have made progress, as you know. We have made progress in the last 15 years. We’ve got more kids into school and into elementary school. We’ve cut the infant mortality rate. We’ve cut the maternal mortality rate. We’ve made progress.
But we still have too many places in our world where kids die too young, where they are stunted from poor nutrition, where they are not given an adequate education.
And I have made this point. I write about it in my book about my four years as Secretary of State. I’ve made it in many speeches around the world.
I believe what the United States does both through our government and through our philanthropy and our faith communities and individual charities is just astonishing.
You know, we are a generous, caring nation, and we have to recognize that it really has made a difference – the work that Americans have done around the world.
And I started a program when I was Secretary of State called Feed the Future and it really does represent my views. It became one of President Obama’s biggest initiatives.
You know, I think it’s far better to help people learn how to feed themselves, to plant and grow their crops, to create a market economy around those crops than to always have to be providing emergency food aid.
And so what we did with Feed the Future was to create more opportunities to go after malnutrition.
Now, we still have emergency help for malnourished children. But we also are doing more to help people have the tools to help themselves and help their kids.
And a problem you didn’t mention but one which I will just throw in here is clean water. We have a billion people in the world without access to clean, safe drinking water.
So these are not only important charitable opportunities. They’re also economic opportunities because we have great NGOs and we have great companies in America who are really good at knowing how to do this. And if we can continue to link up our public and private sector in dealing with some of these problems, I think we’ll go far in meeting your goals.
So, thank you for raising that.
You know, a lot of people have big arguments over the right things to do but they often don’t reference the massive amounts of evidence that we have about what works.
And you’ve just put your finger on one thing that really works: Kids who don’t have the opportunity to – many of us try to provide for our own children over the summer – actually lose ground.
So you can work really hard all year as the student, as the family that supports the student, and particularly as the teacher, and then you’ve got three months.
And other kids like you rightly say, like your nieces or nephews, they’re going to museums, they’re going on interesting trips. Maybe they’re watching movies with their family that they talk about. There’s a lot of stimulation going on.
And we know that a longer school year, summer programs, a longer school day are especially helpful in closing that achievement gap between kids that don’t have all the opportunities that you’re talking about and kids who do.
So honestly, a good summer program can make a huge difference, and I think that’s something that districts should look at, particularly for kids that might not otherwise have good alternatives during the summer time.
Thank you for raising that.
And part of it is because I really believe in service and I believe in service either – national service or military service. Some service that a young person can do to give back to our country…
You know, I mean, we are not always being smart about how to make better investments that will save us money.
So kids who are in school who have some of kind of medical or health issue, if it’s not taken care of, it very often can interfere with their learning. I’ve seen that over many years in the work that I’ve done with the Children’s Defense Fund and the Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families.
You know, kids who don’t know they can’t hear, don’t know they aren’t seeing well, have abscessed teeth that really interfere with concentration – just problems that you know most of us have not, thankfully, had to experience.
So we have a lot of kids who show up in school with health problems and we have steadily cut back on a nurse or some kind of health care program.
And you’re so right. Look, I am so grateful to philanthropies that pay to send a nurse to 10 schools. But we have like 10,000 schools. So how do we get services that will help kids actually be healthy and do as well in school as they can. And the only way to do that is to have a much more supportive program from the government, from the local, state, federal level.
But you see, I know that this saves money in the long run. You know, when people say “Well, yeah, but then we’ve got to put a nurse in every school.” Well, you could have a nurse covering two or three schools. You can do that.
But the point is what’s the alternative? Sick kids who don’t do well, who oftentimes then will drop out because they are behind, who will never live up to their potential, who very well might become a burden – a financial burden – in some respects on the rest of us.
I mean, we have to get smart about how we spend our hard-earned money so that we actually get the best results…
Thank you for raising that issue because I hear about it across the country. People are very concerned about the lack of health care continuity.
Now that we’ve got the Affordable Care Act and more kids are eligible for treatment, we at least have a funding stream to take care of problems that are identified.
Oftentimes, now the issue is how do we get them identified. You know, who is going to be on that front lines. And a child spends, you know, seven, eight hours a day in school, that’s a great place to identify those problems and then to refer them and treat the ones that can be treated inexpensively and in the school site.
So thank you for that.
…
Look, I really think we’ve got to do more to deal with these vulnerable groups of kids, and I would just maybe list a couple of them.
Kids in juvenile facilities. You know, a lot of kids – they make a mistake and then they’re put in a facility where often they get worse, not better, where often they don’t get adequate education. They often don’t even get adequate nutrition, exercise, anything else. And then we turn them out and we wait for them to do something worse because what do you know – they’ve never really been given the support they need to do any better and they don’t see much of the future.
The foster care system. You know, in so many places, you’re in foster care until you graduate from high school or turn 18, whichever is first. And I’ve worked on foster care issues for a really long time, going back to my Children’s Defense Fund days. And I’ve defended foster care kids. I’ve advocated for legal changes as First Lady, worked across the aisle to get some changes to help foster kids.
But it just still breaks my heart because I don’t know how many of you have ever known foster kids but I’ve known a lot of them, and so many of them just need some support and some permanence and some predictability.
And then along comes the age of 18 and in some places in our country, the social worker shows up, puts everything they own in a black garbage bag and says “You’re on your own.”
Now, if they’ve turned 18 and they’re in the middle of high school, if they’re lucky enough the foster family says “Stay here until you graduate”. Sometimes they’re not and they’re literally sent out the door.
I mean, I’ve had to help and intervene as a Senator and with other people to help kids who were sleeping in bus stations who wanted to finish school and had nowhere to go.
I’ve talked to foster kids who by the most intense effort got themselves into college but then you know when everyone else goes home for Thanksgiving or Christmas, they have nowhere to go and the dorms close. What’s going to happen to them?
I mention this because we can never forget that as challenging as it is for many people right now economically – and it is – there are groups of people, particularly children and young people in our country, who are really in trouble.
So I want to do what we can to do more to help them and I will look for ways to do that.
So, we will follow up with you.
Now, from everything I’ve ever seen, a majority of Americans and a majority of gun owners support universal background checks.
And part of the challenge is to overcome a very entrenched special interest that does not represent, as I say, the majority of Americans or the majority of gun owners to get, number one,  a background check that actually works.
And we have too many glitches in it right now. That’s how the young man who massacred the nine people in Charleston at their Bible study – he should never have gotten a gun. And they didn’t get all the information in and there’s a three-day limit, and he got the gun and we know how he used it.
I feel very strongly about this. You know, I just don’t think there is a kind of contradiction that some on the other side tried to argue on behalf of the Second Amendment with sensible gun violence prevention measures and protecting people’s right to bear arms.
And I will take that on.
Look, I know that it’s politically challenging but at some point, we have to regain our senses.
Our country lasted for a really long time and in fact it was only relatively recently that Supreme Court decisions began to reinterpret the Second Amendment.
And you know, what about the rest? What about the young mom with her two kids who was in a supermarket and some guy gets to come in with, you know, an AK-47 over his back because he’s got a new permit that permits him to walk around and threaten and intimidate and scare the heck out of that young mother and her children. I don’t get it.
So we have work to do. We have a lot of work to do. And it’s good work. It’s important work.
…
And among the list of things I would like to see done is de-emphasizing layers upon layers of administration and re-emphasizing teaching.
And part of the problem here, I have been meeting a number of young people – Ph.D.s – in areas of scarcity who – they’re not being hired, they’re not being put on a tenure track because the university says “Well, we don’t have any space for you.” And they’re making $22,000, $24,000 a year – barely enough. Well, they certainly can’t pay off their debts and they’re having a very hard time supporting their families.
So I think somehow our values and priorities got out of whack.
And I can’t speak to any particular college or university, but I’ve heard enough stories to believe that we could do a better job streamlining the top, saving money, and putting money into faculty, particularly young faculty, because it’s the young faculty that are being most disadvantaged by either not being hired or not being paid adequately so that they can’t really do the job that they have dreamed of doing.
So I’m with you on that. We’ve got to see how we can make that work.
That’s good for us. That’s good for our economy. That’s good for our democracy.
So I do want to make sure we do what we can and it will have to be a partnership because it’s a partnership between governments, the private sector, academic institutions, charities, faith-based groups, and a lot of other really important partners.
I’ll tell you a little story that your question kind of prompted in me.
I’ve been – when I was Secretary of State, I went to 112 countries for you and there were a lot of places that were still developing, that were very poor.
One of the reasons why I worked hard to create an opening to Burma – now called Myanmar – is because it’s very strategically located but it also has been so isolated for so long.
And it was apparent that under military dictatorship, the very top – sounds familiar – the very top had done very well, and there was no middle class, and there was just different degrees of poverty.
And when you see that and you realize how vulnerable people are to disease and to other both health and educational problems, you know, it really does give you a great perspective on how blessed and fortunate we are and how we have to keep investing in our own people, we have to keep doing better because we have so much to be grateful for and we have to offer it to our next generation.
And I think when you look at the world from that perspective, I didn’t go anywhere in the world that people didn’t want to know what was happening in America. And even those who would publicly criticize us were really interested in how we were solving problems.
And given the fact that President Obama became President and he asked me to become Secretary of State amidst of a terrible economic crisis, you know, there was a lot of anxiety about the United States economy because it’s still is the basic driver of what happens in the world.
And I could see people say “Boy, it’s so for the United States to get it right. You have to get it right. You have to keep holding up the banner of freedom and opportunity and equality for everybody because without you we’re really going to be lost.”
I think that is true. I just have to tell you. You know, people who say “The years for American leadership are behind us” – first of all, I think they’re wrong. But secondly, the alternative to American leadership is not somebody else’s leadership. It’s nobody’s leadership. And that would be a very dangerous development in the world where you don’t have the values, the interests, the ability to bring people together to solve problems that we have basically led for the last century and need to do again.
So your question – what can we do about kids living far away – is connected to how well we take care of our kids right here today because we can only be as strong as our economy is, our people’s dreams and aspirations are, and that’s why in this campaign, what I’m trying to argue for is to build on what makes America great and make it even greater so that our best days are ahead of us, not behind us.
But that causes us to have to ask ourselves hard questions about what we’re going to do and how we’re going to do it. I think we’re up to it. I wouldn’t be running for President if I didn’t think we were up to it.
We have deep, unaddressed, systemic race and justice issues, and it’s important that we honestly talk about them and try to bring the country together around dealing with them.
It’s not enough just to say we’re concerned; we have to take the next step and say we’re so concerned, here’s what we’re going to do.
And from my perspective, there are a number of proposals that I have been talking about from the very beginning of my campaign.
One is we have to take a hard look at mass incarceration because it has been – it has unfortunately been one of the root reasons why so many families, particularly African-American families, are torn apart, undermined, never formed.
And there is no doubt – there is just no doubt – look, nobody wants to return to lack of safety or rising crime. So let’s just posit that. Nobody wants that.
But the evidence is clear that if you’re an African-American man of whatever age – teenager, up – you are more likely to be arrested, to be convicted, to be imprisoned for doing exactly the same thing as a white man who will not be. And that is not – that is not something that anybody wrote down in a law. That is just something that has grown up over time where people make those decisions.
And we have to do a better job working with law enforcement, working with the entire criminal justice system so that the system and individual police officers respect the communities and the communities they serve respect them. And there is a lot of work that we’re going to have to do.
I mean, some of the – what I proposed – body cameras, that’s a way of at least holding people accountable. But there needs to be more training, more awareness of people’s own individual feelings or maybe biases. So we have a lot of work to do.
And I think these terrible incidents of the past year – they go way back – but certainly in the headlines of the past year, really call on everybody and every community just to say “Hey, we need to do a very clear assessment about where we stand.”
You know, let’s rid ourselves of bias and prejudice and discrimination. Let’s make sure our police officers are well-prepared for the difficult jobs we ask them to do. Let’s try to work with communities so that they can provide more support and opportunities for young people, particularly young men.
We have a lot of work to do. But we can’t do that work if we don’t admit we have a problem. And I think we have a problem and we’re going to have to do it. And yes, of course, black lives matter. There is no doubt about it.
No financial aid, all of it loans, with a variable rate interest that they kicked up on you.
Well, you are going to be helped by my plan. I can tell you that.
Because we are going to be able to refinance all of your debt to bring it down to where the interest rate is right now.
Now, who did you borrow from? Were those government loans or private loans?
So you have government loans plus three private ones. Well, all of them can be refinanced.
And we have taken into account – you know, when we did the numbers on this, the way we will pay for it is by closing the loopholes and the deductions for people at the top.
And we will go – in one instance, we will go back to where it was when President Reagan was in office, which you know I think the Republicans should love and embrace.
And we will take the money that we save from closing those, and then we will use it to do exactly what I said to refinance loans – 40 million people; you’re one of them who have those loans that desperately need refinancing.
I mean, you’re a good-looking young man. You ought to be out in the world making your way and I hope you can be. And I know how challenging it is for you to have those kinds of debts and be back at home after you have finished your education.
So, we want to refinance loans and then we want to make it more affordable on the front end so that people don’t end up where you are.
I also want to put a limit of the number of years because at some point, it is just counter-productive for you to keep working to pay off debt instead of working to build a business, to build a family, to buy a home, to help the economy in other ways.
So we’re going to help.
Thank you all very much. Thank you.
