
…Iran did obviously come up. This is a very important moment.
The President called me late last night to tell me that agreement had been reached.
I applaud him and both Secretary Kerry and Secretary Moniz for their extraordinary efforts in bringing about this conclusion.
Based on what I know now – and I will be briefed as soon as I finish addressing you – this is an important step in putting the lid on Iran’s nuclear program.
There will be a number of issues that have to be addressed. I want to just mention two.
The first is enforcement. This agreement will have to be enforced vigorously, relentlessly.
We have in the agreement the access for inspections and the transparency that was absolutely necessary.
But we have to treat this as an ongoing enforcement effort, which I certainly strongly support and as President would be absolutely devoted to ensuring that the agreement is followed.
And secondly, this does put a lid on the nuclear program but we still have a lot of concern about the bad behavior and the actions by Iran, which remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism, which does go after and undermine governments in the region, that poses an existential threat to Israel, that unfairly, unlawfully confines and tries Americans on trumped up charges.
That bad behavior is something we have to address.
Having been part of building the coalition that brought us to the point of this agreement, I think we will have to immediately upon completion of this agreement and its rigorous enforcement look to see how we build a coalition to try to prevent and undermine Iran’s bad behaviors in other arenas.
I will be talking as soon as I leave you with the other Secretaries of State and other national security advisors to get more details.
But as I say, I think this is an important step that puts the lid on Iran’s nuclear programs and it will enable us then to turn our attention as it must to doing what we can with other partners in the region and beyond to try to prevent and contain Iran’s other bad actions.
So all in all, I think we have to look at this seriously, evaluate it carefully, but I believe based on what I know now this is an important step.
Thank you all very much.
