…Thank you all. Thank you very, very much. Thank you…
I’m really delighted and honored to be here…
We’re here on the campus of a wonderful community college, very much like the one in Oregon where young people were going to school and some not so young.
You know, the victims I read were between 18 and 67. You know, people attending classes, improving their skills, teaching, learning, thinking about the future, which was so ended senselessly, tragically.
On that very same day that those people were killed in Oregon, a five-month old baby strapped into her car seat in the back of a car was killed by a stray bullet in Cleveland – the third baby in just a few months to be murdered in Cleveland.
Between 88 and 92 people a day are killed by guns in America.
Last figures we have for a whole year is more than 33,000.
It’s the leading cause of death for young African-American men, the second leading cause for young Hispanic men, the fourth leading cause for young white men.
This epidemic of gun violence knows no boundaries, knows no limits of any kind.
And when this happens, people are quick to say that they offer their thoughts and prayers. That’s not enough. How many people have to die before we actually act, before we come together as a nation?
You know, on the Republican side, Mr. Trump was asked about it, said something like, you know, things like that happen in the world. Gov. Bush said “Yeah, stuff happens.”
No, that’s an admission of defeat and surrender to a problem that is killing 33,000 Americans [each year].
It’s time for us to say, “Wait a minute. We’re better than this. Our country is better than this.”

And there are steps we can take that improve gun safety and further the prevention of violence by guns.
And today, I am proposing what I consider to be common sense approaches.
A majority of Americans supports universal background check. In fact, a majority of gun owners support universal background checks.
We had a bipartisan bill that didn’t make it through the Senate.
But we need to go back and with all of our hearts, working not just in Washington but from the grassroots up, demand that we have universal background checks.
And we have to also – we have to close the loopholes. You know, we’ve got what’s called the gun show loophole and we’ve got what’s now being called the Charleston loophole.
When the Brady bill was passed, which wasn’t easy as you recall but it did pass, exceptions were made for gun shows and then later it was extended to include online sales. And 40% of guns are sold [through] gun shows, online sales. We need to close that loophole so that when we have a universal background check, it will cover everybody.
And then another loophole is what happened when the young man who murdered the nine people at Bible study in the church basement in Charleston applied for a gun, the loophole says if they don’t get the background check done in three days, you can still go buy the gun.
Turned out he had a criminal background and you know how record keeping is – people were still searching through it but at the end of three days he goes and buys the gun because we don’t yet have it automated enough, we don’t yet have the information shared from all levels of government. And he got his gun and was determined to go use it to kill nine innocent people.
We also must address the very serious problem of military style weapons on our streets.
And you know, people don’t really have the chance. Lots of times when terrible murders like this take place, somebody will say “Oh, you know, if we only had more guns.”
You walk into class, you’re driving your baby around in a car seat, you’re going to church, somebody has an automatic weapon or even worse an assault weapon that is a military instrument of war and you’re somehow supposed to stop that with your own gun? That has never made any sense.
And so from my perspective, we have got to keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them – domestic abusers, people with serious mental health problems.
There’s got to be a better tracking and record-keeping.
You know, I remember the terrible massacre at Virginia Tech. The shooter there had been involuntarily committed and there was no record of it.
And if there is information about people who are felons, who are suffering from serious mental illness, who are domestic abusers, we got to get that information into the record-keeping so that the universal background checks will actually show you that here’s somebody who shouldn’t have it.
Now, some people say to me “Well, does this really work?”
Well, I can tell you this: The best data that we have is that since the Brady bill implemented background checks, more than 2.4 million people have been stopped from buying a gun and over a million of those were felons. So there were records of those particular potential purchasers.

And I want to work with all of you – I want to work with sensible gun safety advocates as well as gun owners. I want to work with people from the grassroots up all the way to Washington.
Because how much longer will we just shrug – “Oh my gosh, something else terrible happened” – whether it’s in your neighborhood…or at a community college or the murder of children in their classrooms.
We’re going to go to the town hall portion of this, but I want to ask one of the mothers from Sandy Hook, if you wouldn’t mind, to just come join me for a minute because I want you to hear from her.
Because so many of the parents – you know – so many of the parents of these precious children who were murdered have taken the unimaginable grief that they have been bearing and have tried to be the voices that we need to hear.
And I want you to introduce yourself and maybe talk about what you and other parents are trying to do to get the changes that are necessary.
Nicole Hockley:
Thank you so much. My name is Nicole Hockley. I’m the managing director at Sandy Hook Promise and also the mother of Dylan, who was six when he was killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
Gun violence prevention was nowhere on my radar before losing my son, and I wish it had been and I wish I had done something long before something that I thought could never hit my community hit me.
As part of Sandy Hook Promise, we focus very much on gun safety legislation and the common sense practices that you’re speaking of. So thank you so much for taking this on and speaking out.
We also are very much focused on what can we do to get ahead of the violence, get upstream of it and help identify and intervene, help people learn how to know the signs of someone who’s get risk and get help before they even get to the state of picking up a weapon to hurt someone else.
I think it’s a comprehensive solution that’s needed between gun access and responsibility as well as mental health and wellness, and working together with all the other organizations and all the other people as well as yourself, I have absolute faith that we can deliver the solution and protect children across America.
Hillary Clinton:
Thank you.
You know, I think what you’ve just heard really reinforces how nobody knows what might happen because we haven’t done what we need to do to try to make any of us, but particularly our children, safe.
So that’s what’s behind the proposals that I’m making. They’re not new. There’s nothing unique about them other than the fact that I am so determined we’re going to do everything we possibly can to get this done…
… I have said we need a movement that people really will be part of, no matter what other issue that is on your minds, and if you care about our safety, the great hope that we can protect who are going about their daily business should be at the top.
And therefore, I’m really asking everybody regardless of politics or partisanship or candidates or anything else to think of the ways that each of us can do more to try to provide that measure of gun safety that will save lives and prevent violence.

Question on CDC research on gun violence that was defunded by Republicans in the 1990s:
Hillary Clinton:
I agree with you. And what’s referring to is that the Centers for Disease, you know, is responsible for looking at public health issues.
You know, if there’s dirty water that’s making people sick, we are expecting them to tell us what to do to prevent that.
So they were researching gun violence and trying to figure out who is more likely to commit violence, what kinds of warning signs might there be.
And for very sad reasons basically, you’re right, the Republicans stopped the research. But it even goes further than that.
You know, there is a law in Florida – and I want you to hear this because it was so shocking at first that I really didn’t believe it – there is a law in Florida that makes it a felony for a pediatrician to talk with families about being sure they keep guns safely away from children.
Literally, a doctor can go to jail in Florida.
Now, if you’re a pediatrician and, you know, you’re running through your check list – “Are you keeping your household poisons out of the way of your kids?” especially if you have toddlers who are exploring everything. “Do you make sure that your sharp knives are kept away and are they high enough up so that kids can’t accidentally get them?”
It seems perfectly reasonable to me to say, “Hey, if you’ve got guns in the house, are you sure they’re really secure?” because too many little kids get ahold of them and we read about it every week and they kill themselves, they kill their little friends.
I mean, it is the doctor’s responsibility to try to work with the families so that the families can try to keep their babies safe.
And if you’re in Florida, you could go to jail.
So I want to make the argument and work towards the result that, you know, we can learn a lot more about what are the characteristics of people who should not have guns…
As we’re learning more, certainly what we know about the killer from Sandy Hook, now the killer from Oregon, you know, there probably were some comments, some actions that might have set off some alarms in people.
But if we don’t have the good information so that people can be better informed, how do we help them. So I agree with you – no issue should be beyond study in America.
I mean, that’s like a denial of everything we believe in our country.
And you know, going along with that so far as I know, the gun industry and the gun sellers are the only business in American that is totally free of liability from their behavior. Nobody else – nobody else – is given that immunity.
And I mean, that just illustrates the extremism that has taken over this debate…
In fact, when the NRA was on one of their tirades and calling the Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms enforcers, you know, “jackbooted thugs”, President George H.W. Bush resigned as an NRA member and said, “No, I’m not going to be associated with that.”
So, I mean, ideally what I would love to see is gun owners – responsible gun owners, hunters – form a different organization and take back the Second Amendment from these extremists.

Question on troops withdrawal from Afghanistan:
Hillary Clinton:
…First, I want to say how distressed I am by the bombing of the hospital in Kunduz. And I know Defense Secretary Carter has said there will be a full, thorough investigation to try to get to the bottom of that. But it’s deeply regrettable. It came within the context of the Taliban taking back a city in the north and the Afghan army, which has performed very bravely. You know, this is not an army that runs away. This is an army that stands and fights. But they don’t have the experience. They don’t have a lot of the support that they need to be as successful as they are trying to be.
You know, I think that we have got to continue to work with the Afghan government and the Afghan military to support them because they are fighting. It’s a different story in other parts of the world. But there in Afghanistan, you know, people are fighting for the gains that have been made in the last 13, 14 years.
There still is a lot of conflict. There still is a lot of danger. The Taliban is not going away, we know that.
But there has been so many positive developments. You know, the number of girls and women in school, at work, studying in the United States, going home to try to help their country, businesses that are able to operate now as opposed to being under the thumb of the Taliban and being forced to basically pay tribute all the time to the Taliban.
There have been a lot of advances in health. You know, Afghanistan had the worst maternal mortality rate in the world and thanks to help from not just the United States but from other countries working with Afghan doctors and nurses, you know, mothers are surviving child births.
Some of the things that are so basic that are now so much better in Afghanistan.
So I don’t know the specifics or what I will be facing in January of 2017. But Afghanistan is a country that has tried and the people are really focused on getting beyond the violence and the extremism from the Taliban and I don’t think we should just walk away.
So I will do what I can to help.

Question on how Clinton would respond to national tragedies like Hurricane Joaquin and the Oregon college shooting:
Hillary Clinton:
…You know, let’s take the natural disaster question first, because Hurricane Joaquin was on everyone’s mind. Thankfully it didn’t hit as hard as they feared although South Carolina is getting battered with terrible torrential rains.
I think one of the most important decisions any new President has is who’s going to run FEMA and who’s going to be prepared to work with cities, states, and the national government to get prepared for incoming natural disasters to get pre-positioned the equipments and the food and the experts that you’re going to need to be able to help people. And I will take that very seriously looking for someone who has real hands-on experience, not from a 30,000 feet flying over it, but who has been there, who has had to go in and figure out what to do to help people evacuate, what needed to be done to try to, you know, do as much as possible to help people save their homes but not stay in their homes. There’s just a lot of hard-won wisdom.
And because of climate change, we are seeing an increased number of weather events, you know, all over the world, not just in our country.
And we need a mapping project – here I’ll give you a perfect example of why I disagree so profoundly with the current Republicans…
But the current Republicans in the Congress are trying to cut dramatically the money the federal government puts into weather forecasting, and to me that is so – what’s that old saying – you know, “Penny wise, pound foolish”?
We’ve got to have the best possible weather forecasting not only for agriculture and everyday occurrences but also to get ahead of natural disasters and events like big storms.
So I will appoint good people. I will look across the government to figure out what we need to do better so that we have excellent communication with states and local governments and that we keep people well informed so that they can make good decisions for themselves and that we move really quickly to come in after something has happened – because we can’t stop the weather, we know that – but to really ready to get in there to help the clean-up and the recovery.
And I think that people need to be empowered to help themselves too.
You know, I’m a little worried that sometimes the federal government’s message is “Don’t do anything until we get there.” That’s not my message.
Help each other. Help fix the problems. Help work and take pictures and report things because people are afraid to do that because then they say “I want to get some help from the disaster assistance funding” and they’re told “Well, you should have left it alone.” No, you shouldn’t leave it alone. You should be out there helping your neighbors. You should be out there – and my goodness, everybody in the world has a cell phone. Keep a record of it. So then when the federal government – FEMA, Small Business Administration, and others – show up, you can say “Here’s what we had right after the storm. Here’s what we’ve been doing to clean up. Here’s what we’ve spent on plywood and boarding and the big vacuums to clean up the dirt and all of that.”
I’m very hands-on, very practical, very “Let’s get it done”, and that’s how I would do this.
Question on Clinton’s vision for the U.S. in the next decade:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, that’s a great question…
Well, first of all, I want it to truly be the country we all love and cherish and that has given so much to every one of us who is here in this room today and that still holds out that same promise to you – if you work hard and you do your part, you will be able to get ahead and stay ahead and pursue your dreams. That’s what I want for every young person in our country.
And that means we ought to get the economy working better so that it produces more jobs with rising incomes and I have a lot to say about that but it’s really critical because I want you to feel like whatever you choose to do you’re going to be part of this great country of ours.
I want the education system – sounds like it’s working pretty well for you – I want it to work for everybody and particularly starting with our youngest kids to get them off to a better start so that they can successful in school.
And I want college to be affordable for you so we’ve got to get the costs down, and I’ve offered my…New College Compact to do just that because I just don’t want to see young people with ambition, talent, of good work ethic not be able to either to start school or finish school because it’s too expensive and they can’t afford it. We have got to deal with that.
And we’ve got to get the cost down so that people don’t go into debt. And I know that this is a problem in New Hampshire and we have to refinance the debt that people have so they can be more free to pursue their own interests and they can actually move out of their parents’ home and maybe rent or buy one and get on with their lives.
And you know with health care I want us to have more and more people who have insurance so that they have quality affordable health care, and I want us to deal with the big substance abuse epidemic so that we begin to turn the tide on heroin and pills and other addictions that are ruining people’s lives.
And going back to the gun discussion, we’ve got to have more treatment for mental health and we have to figure out how to help more people get the treatment assuming it is available.
And I want the world to be safer. I want the world that you will become an adult in to still be led by the United States because there is no alternative. The United States – if we don’t lead, nobody leads; you have a vacuum and that vacuum is filled by a lot of bad actors including terrorist groups who will take advantage of their neighbors and eventually even threaten us.
And I want to protect our rights – our civil rights, our human rights, gay rights, women’s rights. I want to protect the rights of Americans.
We have a lot of work to do. And I can’t possibly even as President do all of that. This has to be done by everybody working together, everybody standing up for the kind of country that we want to live in and we want to see for our children.
And you know, I’m a grandmother as you know, and I will just say this: I’m a granddaughter of a factory worker. You know, my grandfather worked in the Scranton lace mills in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He worked really hard. And he did to support his family and he did it so that his sons would have a better life. And they did. All three of his sons actually ended up going to college. And my dad started a small business and it was really small but it provided a really good middle-class life for us. And then here I am third generation asking all of you to elect me President.
I mean, that is the American story and I will do whatever I can as will my husband to help our granddaughter have the best possible life. But you know what? That’s not enough. It’s not enough. And that’s what I want people to understand.
You shouldn’t have to be the granddaughter of a former President or Secretary of State to believe you can fulfill your dreams in our country. You should be able to be the granddaughter of a factory worker or the grandson of a truck driver and have that same opportunity.
So every single day, I’m going to wake up in the White House and I’m going to say to myself, what am I going to do today to make sure every child in this country has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential? That is my mission as President.
Question on what policies Clinton will institute in the first 100 days in office to protect children:
Hillary Clinton:
Sadly, her question really points to what’s been happening in our country where over the last 10 years because of the Great Recession, because of the huge loss of jobs and wealth that people had built up before 2007, 2008, poverty is on the increase.
Today, 51% of the children in our public schools are eligible for low, reduced cost or free lunches.
And we were on a good path, may I say, in the 90s, we were on a good path to lift more people out of poverty. And by lifting families out of poverty, you help to lift children out of poverty.
And we are going to have to redouble our efforts to do all of that again.
I give President Obama enormous credit for digging out of the deep ditch that he was in when the Republicans left.
And there are a number of things we have to do. The top of the list is more jobs, raise the minimum wage, so people who work full-time are not still living in poverty and they could provide a better life for their children.
More jobs in general and there are a lot of great projects. We have a lot of roads and bridges and rail track and airports and ports and everything else in our country that is deteriorating and it needs to be built up, maintained so that we’re more competitive economically, and that would put millions of people to work.
And I think we can combat climate change by more clean energy jobs, which would be millions of jobs and businesses if we shifted the incentives that are still in the tax code and other parts of our government for fossil fuels to wind and solar and advanced biofuels. We would be ahead on the climate change front and we would be putting people to work. And we’re already seeing that in some parts of our country; we just need to do it all the way across.
I think people who work for corporations should be able to share in the profits, not just the CEOs but everybody up and down the line in those companies, very much like Market Basket – a place that you all know because they now have profit sharing for their employees.
I think we need to do more to support small business, who creates 60% of the jobs in America, and right now we’re behind in small business creation and growth.
We used to be number one; we’re now not even in the top 10. So I want to do more – more credit, get rid of regulations and licensing and the barriers that stand in the way for people to start their business like my dad and be able to provide a good middle class life.
And once we get the economy moving again, then we can turn our attention to how we can be good partners with families with children.
So here are some of my thoughts and I’ve worked in this area for a very long time.
First and foremost, we have to keep them safe and free from violence by strangers or those within their own homes and families.
We also need to help kids who may not have the opportunities that many of our kids and my grandchild has to get ahead and that means you need to have early childhood education. And it’s not just a – it’s not just a nice thing to do. If you don’t prepare kids their first five years, when they get to school, they will be behind. There will be an achievement gap. And then it’s really hard for the kid and the family, and the school to close that gap.
See, I happen to think talent is everywhere but I don’t think opportunity is. And I don’t know what we’re losing because we have poor kids who are not given a chance to really get off to a good start, whose brains are not being stimulated the way that will help them get a vocabulary so that they can be successful in school.
So I think the early childhood piece of this is very important.
Health care is essential. You know, I helped to start the Children’s Health Insurance back in the 90s which takes care of 8 million [children]…And that’s why I find states that don’t want to expand Medicaid to be really missing the boat.
You know, we need to have people healthy. How can we have a competitive economy if they can’t get their basic health needs met and that’s particularly true for kids.
You know, my first job out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund and we would go into areas, into schools, and kids couldn’t see and we stopped having school nurses, we stopped testing their eyesights.
I found out that I couldn’t see in fourth grade because I didn’t know I couldn’t see so my mother would of course taken me to find out. But I didn’t know. I thought the world was just a big impressionist painting and, you know, I just got up really close to the TV set. So then we had an eye exam in school and then I found out, “Oh my gosh, I really can’t see.”
Well, there are so many kids who are not getting those basic health needs met. That also holds them back.
And then of course once we’re in school, I think we should start respecting teachers again who are actually in the classrooms with the kids and trying to help them help the children.
…We now have a hunger problem again. You know, a lot of us thought that was behind us.
We have both a hunger and a nutrition problem. We have maybe not the kind of hunger that turns people into what is obviously physical malnutrition but we don’t have adequate nutrition in a lot of neighborhoods and communities, and we don’t have a lot of families who understand how to best feed their kids because what they can afford is not necessarily good for their kids but it’s affordable.
So you know we need to do more work on this to get back to where there isn’t that sense of either hunger or poor nutrition that can really affect a child’s development.
So this is something that I would do as President but I would ask everybody to help me do because there’s work to be done in every community, including Manchester.

Question on mental health:
Hillary Clinton:
…Back in the 1980s, we had a lot of debate over big institutions where people were housed but in many cases they were warehoused. And the result of a lot of investigations which showed how people were not being adequately cared for was to shut down a lot of the institutions.
At the same time, those who were worried about what would happen to people if there were no place for them were guaranteed we’d have funding and community alternatives for mental health.
So, we shut down the institutions by and large and we never really invested what we should in mental health alternatives.
That’s going to be something that I push very hard because you mentioned gun violence, which is something that’s directly related to mental health problems, the addiction issue – a lot of people with mental health challenges are self-medicating with alcohol and drugs so then they have a dual problem that has to be addressed.
So I think as we move forward with the Affordable Care Act, we have to enforce the decision that was made that people with physical health and mental health will get treatment.
But right now, a lot of insurance companies, a lot of states, a lot of businesses are not providing the kind of support you need for mental health.
When somebody is either convinced or decides to seek mental health problems, they’re very often are told, “Well, we have no place for you. Come back in six weeks or three months.” And who knows what will happen?
So you know where most people now who are presenting with mental health problems show up? They’re in our jails and our prisons. And it’s understandable because they are a harm to themselves or to others…And in most places in the country, there’s nowhere else for them to go so they’re put in jail and they may be held there for a long time without any treatment. And then they end up in prison and they’re still not getting adequate treatment.
The other point I want to say about this is because we have over-prescribed painkillers – the opioids – we have a lot of people who’ve gotten very addicted to them. And that creates a mental strain on top of whatever problems you might have.
And so we now have a lot of people who have to try to withdrawal and we have about 23 million people who are addicted in America, so when they go for help, only 1 in 10 can get it.
So you’ve got this real double whammy. People with mental health problems aren’t getting help. People with addiction and substance abuse problems are not getting help. And you’ve got to figure out how we take resources and treat both people simultaneously because too often they become interconnected and then we have a real problem.
So I pledge to you, I’m going to do everything I can – more facilities, more trained people, more insurance coverage, more revenues.

Question on college affordability:
Hillary Clinton:
Well, I’ll speak for myself. He [referring to Bernie Sanders] is certainly more than capable of speaking for himself, and we’re going to have a debate in about I guess, oh, eight days. So we’ll have a chance to contrast.
But I want you – if you’re interested in this issue and I think everybody is on how we get college more affordable and how we refinance student debt, go to my website – HillaryClinton.com and it’s called the New College Compact.
But very briefly, I do have a different approach.
First of all – and my approach has been thankfully endorsed by a lot of people because I think what it does is address the many aspects of this problem.
First, we’ve got to get the cost of college down. Colleges and universities have to quit raising tuition and costs on students and families.
And so if all we do is to say we’re going to have free college but we don’t really put pressure on the colleges and the universities to lower the costs, you’re going to continue to see the costs going up and then the cost of free college will continue to go up. That, to me, is unsustainable.
So first and foremost, I want colleges and universities looking at how many administrators they need, how many buildings they need, how many different courses are no longer really relevant.
I mean, let’s take a hard look at what we are doing on campus, get those costs down, so we can keep tuition down.
Secondly, I have said that the federal government – and I have a plan – $350 billion over 10 years. So about $35 billion a year. Where we would match for every dollar that the state would put in to making college more affordable for their students, we would match them 4 to 1. But they would have to agree on some of these changes in public colleges and universities to get that money.
And then if you choose a public college or university, I will make it possible for you to go without borrowing money for tuition. But I will expect something from you like, for example, 10 hours of work per week.
I worked when I was in college. I worked when I was in law school.
And I want young people to know that this is an important value, and yes you have to work for it. But it will be for public college or university possible to not borrow money for tuition.
Now, for living expenses, I will make it possible for the Pell grants to be used for living expenses because what happens now is that young people who get a Pell grant they often find it doesn’t even cover tuition anymore. So we’ll deal with the tuition side of the public college and university. And then we’ll deal with the living expense side.
And if you do have to borrow money, it will be with a low interest rate…
I don’t think college should be free for Donald Trump’s children. Right? I think people who are well-off should have to pay for college.
I’m interested in the middle class and working people and poor kids who deserve to have a better shot at going to college and graduating.
And you know, I feel strongly that when you already have debt…we have 40 million people in America with student debt. And what I want is to refinance all that student debt because right now if you have a home mortgage or you’re making car payments, you can refinance it. We forbid you from refinancing the student debt…
And so I want us to refinance it and I want to provide everybody a chance to pay back their loans as a percentage of their income.
So if you’re a firefighter or a school principal or you’re a social worker or a police officer, whatever you’re doing that you want to do but you’re not making a lot of money, you’re not going to have to pay back at that high interest rate; you’re going to be able to pay back at about 10% of your income.
When I got out of law school and I went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund, I didn’t go to a big law firm; I went to work for a non-profit because I wanted to work on behalf of kids.
And so I was lucky enough that the university at that time offered me the chance to pay it back as a percentage.
So both Bill and I had loans and he was a law professor. After CDF, I became a law professor…and we were paying back our loans by what we could afford.
And so I want this to be as I say a compact where people do their part – obviously young people have to do their part, families have to do what they can afford to do, colleges have to pitch in and get those costs down, and the federal government with states.
Now, if states – and we’ve had this example with Medicaid – if the state says “No, we don’t want to partner with the federal government”, then I will go right to institutions like this one and I do want community colleges to be as inexpensive as possible because it’s an important step for a lot of young people to take.
So thank you all very much.
