
And I have gone across this country making the point that when President Obama came into office, he inherited the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and he doesn’t get the credit he deserves for digging us out of that big hole that he was handed when he came in.
So, it’s been a long slow effort, which thanks to him and his leadership and many, many millions of Americans, we are exactly where Roland [sp] said we are – down to 5% unemployment, jobs are coming back.
But incomes are not rising. And so we have two big problems.
One, we’ve got to get incomes for everybody to go back up.
And number, we’ve got to get more good jobs and we do need in my opinion a targeted effort at people and communities that have not had the benefits of the recovery thus far and we need to go even further.
So very quickly, we need once and for all to have a very big infrastructure program on our roads, our bridges, tunnels, airports, rail systems where we can put millions of people to work.
Number two, we need to combat climate change by becoming the clean energy super power of the 21st century. That means putting wind turbines and installing solar panels and doing energy efficiency work and all the work that will enable us not only to have the economy grow but move away from fossil fuels.
Number three, we need to start investing in small business and my particular hope is that I can be the small business president and I want to focus on women and minority owned small businesses in our country again.
So all of those things I think will make a difference.
But we also have a problem, you know, labor unions are not the problem in much of the south because they are all right to work states. So we’ve got to make sure that anywhere we do infrastructure if the federal government has any money into it, there must be a program for recruiting and hiring and where necessary training people from less advantaged communities, and that’s going to be my goal.

So I will look for ways to try to number one stop the damage so that we don’t lose more homes because people still haven’t recovered. But number two, we’ve got to get back into the homeownership business and a lot of financial institutions are reluctant to loan and they’re more reluctant to loan to African-American and Latinos…
And we’re now starting to see some of the bad behavior coming from the folks who bought those homes. You know, they’re forcing people out. Big article today about misleading people and forcing them to turn over their home under false pretenses.
So you’re right. What happened in ’07, ’08 is just beyond horrible. You know, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out, most of it in homeownership but also in IRA, 401ks, college funds. Everybody had to take the money out in order to live.
So we have a lot of catching up to do and it’s not enough if just some people recover. I want to do what I can to help everybody recover.
Question on people being denied jobs due to poor credit scores and whether Clinton supports Rep. Maxine Waters’s bill to reform the Fair Credit Act:
Hillary Clinton:
…I generally agree with that. I don’t know the specifics of Maxine’s legislation but I will obviously look at it immediately but I want to make two general points.
One, sometimes credit reports are wrong. But let’s deal with that problem…and that is a serious problem for a lot of people.
Secondly, look, I think a lot of credit problems particularly for young people have to do with student debt, have to do with credit cards that they have to use in order to stay in college, in order to be able to get their education. There are a lot of reasons why I don’t think you should have credit reports following you around like some anchor you have to carry with you.
So yeah, I want people to be responsible. I want them to pay their debt. But I also want to make sure you’ve got a second chance and it shouldn’t be that you are denied a job that has nothing to do as I understand…with your credit score, your credit situation.
So we need to take a hard look at and I’ll take a look at Maxine’s bill.
And I’ve met with them. I’ve had some very good open productive conversations with representatives of the Black Lives Matter movement.
I wish they had listened because a lot of what we have talked about together are part of the proposals that I’m making.
And the reason we roll them out – and this is an interesting point to make to you as a leading member of the press – is you get more attention paid to them. If you put them out one day, it’s a one day story. If you roll them out, you get covered as you roll them out.
So we’ve been rolling out starting with the very first speech that I gave in this campaign back in, I don’t know, March or April about criminal justice reform and incarceration reform. And I want to keep doing that because I want people to look at what I am proposing.
We’re going to reduce minimum mandatory sentences. We’re going to finally remove the difference between powder and crack cocaine, which has been a terrible unfair burden. We are going to ban the box and let people apply for jobs and only at the end if they get to that end they get to be – they talk about whatever record they might have. We’re going to invest much more in treatment and recovery and support and jobs and training programs.
So we have a very robust agenda and I feel very committed to this. And I particularly want young people who share the impatience and the disappointment.
And you know, we should be talking about going forward but I will say back in the ‘90s that bills was in response to a horrific decade of crime and leaders of the communities of color and poor communities were in the forefront saying “You must do something.” And it was done and it did have a lot of positive but also negative unintended consequences. That’s why we have to take another look. That’s what a democracy should do – look at the evidence and make changes based on it.

…This is like everything else. It cuts both ways.
If you reduce the mandatory minimums, I believe then we can see does it reduce discrimination and discrimination can be on both sides. Because what happens right now which you know so well is that African-American men are far more likely to be arrested, to be charged, to be convicted, to be incarcerated for doing the same things as white men. So we want to reduce those minimums but we also don’t want to open the door to a different form of discrimination. So we’re looking hard at how this would actually be applied in the real world.
And for all those Republicans who say this is not a real world problem, I wish they would come to my town halls because I don’t know who they’re talking to because it is.
I think there are several things we do. Number one, just talking about it, making sure people can’t ignore it or diminish it or pretend that it’s somebody else’s problem.
But then we have to enforce the laws that are already on the books and I will do that vigilantly because this is not just a woman’s issue. This is a family issue and this is an economic issue.
And the other thing is one of the things – and you got right to it – one of the things that stands in the way of knowing how widespread this is is the fact that in many businesses you can be fired for asking somebody else in the business how much they’re paid. So a lot of women don’t know they are being paid less than the men that they’re working beside doing the same job.
That’s what happened to Lilly Ledbetter – the woman in Alabama who had worked in a big factory for years. She got promoted. Okay. She became the first woman foreman – I guess a woman forewoman – and she worked there and it was only by accident that she learned that although there were four of five men doing the very same job, she was being paid less.
So I want to remove any doubt that transparency is acceptable and if there needs to be changes in the rules or the laws about businesses so that they cannot retaliate, so that you can find out how much you’re being paid so that you can compare your pay to other workers in the same situation.
I’ll just tell you a real quick story. A young man came up to me in New Hampshire. He said to me, “I want to tell you why I’m for you.” He was mid to late 20s. He said his first real job was working as a cashier in the same store that his mother worked in – part of a chain – and he was 17. And he was so proud because this was like the first job and he got it because his mother introduced him to somebody. It was, you know, great.
So he comes home with his first paycheck. His mother looks at him and her face falls. And she tells him “You’re making $1 more an hour than I am and I’ve been there for years?”
So he went to find out and the manager said, “Well, yeah, you’re a young man. We think you’ve got a lot of potential to go up in the business.”
“Well, what about my mother?”
So we’re going to tackle this and we’re going to end it once and for all.

90 people a day die in our country from guns. Homicide, suicide, and avoidable accident like what the gentleman was referring to. And it is imperative that people make this a voting issue.
I know we can balance the legitimate rights of gun owners with the right to be safe going to school or going to church, the right to have more control over what happens in people going stores to buy guns who shouldn’t have them. So here’s what I am proposing.
Number one, we need universal background checks for real. We need to close the gunshow loophole. We need to close the online loophole because people are buying guns and ammunitions online. You have no idea who they are. And we know some of the mass murderers, that’s how they got what they used to kill people.
We need to close what’s called the Charleston loophole. That Charleston loophole is unfortunately what enabled that young man to get a gun he was not entitled to. He was a felon. He had a felony conviction. But under the rules, three business days is all you get to find out, and the information hadn’t been shared between two jurisdictions. So after three days, he went and he got that gun and he went to Mother Emanuel and he murdered those nine wonderful people.
And then we need to remove the immunity that gunmakers and sellers have. They’re the only industry in America that we give blanket immunity to. You can do anything.
And then that gets to the final point I want to make about what you asked. Gunmakers should be required to apply technology that currently exists so that guns owned by responsible adults cannot be operated by children or if they are stolen cannot be used by criminals.
And what I am just appalled at are the numbers of young children – I’m talking toddlers – who go into a closet or go under a bed or open a drawer and there’s a loaded gun. And these children kill themselves. They kill their playmates. They kill their siblings. They kill their parents. They injure people. That is crazy, my friends.
So I know that the NRA and the gun lobby are powerful. But I think the American people are more powerful and the right to life is the most powerful of all.
If you are going to a public college or university, you will not have to borrow money to pay for tuition and you will be able to use your Pell Grant if you get one for living expenses.
And so we are going to make it possible for far more young people to be able to go to college, finish college, and graduate without that debt.
With respect to HBCUs, that will help the public HBCUs because they will certainly be included. But I want to go further than that and I have a special provision of a pot of $25 billion for HBCUs including private institutions because I agree completely…these are the places that graduate black professionals. And we need more and not fewer and I will reverse the impact of the loan changes.
…Well, first of all, my plan will mean that it’s not necessary. But for those young dropped out, we need to figure out how to get them back in so we have to reverse the effects that led them to have to drop out.

I don’t think we can blame the loss of the textile industry on NAFTA. I think it was broader than that. NAFTA may have opened the door more widely for jobs to go to Mexico. But textile jobs were under global pressure even without NAFTA.
But what does that mean because the other side of the equation was that South Carolina has attracted a great number of car companies, more advanced manufacturing companies. So it’s a mind of good news, bad news story.
What I want to do is to make it possible for us to recruit both internally within the United States and externally from abroad more jobs and I’ll be honest with you I’m not sure we can get textile jobs back unless they are more sophisticated, requiring higher levels of expertise in the dying and the printing and whatever else is required.
But I do think we can get more advanced manufacturing jobs back if we provide more tax credit and more tax support, if we do what I said at the very beginning we have more apprenticeship programs so we are training our workforce right here at home.
The community college system is one of our biggest advantages in any measurement of how we can be successful, and I’ve been to a good community college outside of Charleston, which is doing these apprenticeship programs in advanced manufacturing.
But let me just say we’re not going to get those jobs back unless we have skilled workers to be able to do them. And that’s where education comes in because we have still too many people who don’t have the skills that are required to do the advanced manufacturing. So I want a nationwide effort but to focus on poorer states with larger poor populations like South Carolina to do more in a kind of a, as you were saying, a new New Deal or a new training program so that we actually take seriously the idea that we can get and keep these jobs.
And it’s one of the reasons why I came out against the Trans-Pacific Partnership bill because we have to trade. Look, we are 5% of the world’s population. We have to build things and sell things to the other 95%. So people who are against trade under any circumstances no matter what I think are kind of missing the point. We need smart trade and fair trade and effective trade.
And we need to mix it with taking care of our own people.
So if you open the door to trade, which I’m all for, you’ve got to make sure you’ve got people in your own country who are able to compete for those jobs. And the Republicans are all for trade, but they’re not for job training, they’re not for pre-school education that will prepare kids, they’re not for re-skilling the workforce. They don’t want to spend any money on that.
And I am holding out to say, “Okay, we can do trade, but we can only do trade that is going to benefit the American people across the board if we invest in our own people and we give them the skills and opportunities to be successful.”

And the reason I proposed it is because I believe strongly that young people should be registered when they turn 18.
Now, for legal reasons, they can opt out of that but I don’t think the vast majority would and I want to see young people registered at 18.
But you raise a much bigger point.
You know, when the Supreme Court – and these are my words – gutted the Voting Rights Act by rejecting the Congress reauthorizing it. And I was in the Senate then. We voted 98 to nothing to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act. The Supreme Court was basically sending a message to political leaders that they could begin to try to find new ways to interfere with the right to vote. Now, that may not have been their intention but that has been the result.
And all these photo ID – you know, we did not have a problem of any magnitude whatsoever. Our problem is not people illegally trying to vote. Our problem is that legal folks are not doing what they should to vote to make sure their voices are heard. And so I have been taking on this issue and I’m going to keep taking it on.
And I think the Supreme Court was absolutely wrong. There’s legislation now being promoted in the Congress to try to repair the damage that the Supreme Court did.
But in the meantime, we need to have political action, we need to have litigation, we need to have mobilization against these efforts to suppress the vote.
Now, you ask yourself, “Why are they doing that? Well, it’s pretty simple.” There are some people they don’t want to vote. And I’ll give you a perfect example.
Alabama passed a voter ID bill and they said, “Okay, one of the voter IDs you can use is a driver’s license with your picture on it.”
Well, you know, I don’t believe they’re necessary but you know that okay, you can use a voter ID that way.
And then just a few months ago, they passed a bill and the governor acts to shut down the motor vehicle offices in the counties that have the biggest black population.
Now, you know, I spent 18 wonderful years in Arkansas and I learned a lot, and one of my favorite philosophy lessons is this: If you find a turtle on a fencepost, it did not get there by accident.
And so I went to Alabama and I said “Look, nobody can believe this. You don’t close the offices in the counties with the biggest African-American votes and it’s a coincidence.”
So, people have got to stand up against this. I think it’s time that there be an outrage – an outpouring – from communities across these states that are doing this.
And it’s going to be one of my highest priorities and I’m going to do everything that I can to help people get registered, to make sure people understand that they meet whatever the requirements are, and that they then turn out to vote because we need to have a big turnout in the 2016 election.

And what I have worked on through my work with the Children’s Defense Fund and my work on education in Arkansas and through my time as First Lady and Senator is to continue to say charter schools can have a purpose but you know there are good charter schools and there are bad charter schools, just like there are good public schools and there are bad public schools.
…But the original idea behind the charter schools…was to learn what worked and then apply them in the public schools.
And here’s a couple of problems. Most charter schools – I don’t want to say every one but most charter schools – they don’t take the hardest to teach kids or if they do they don’t keep them.
And so, the public schools are often in a no-win situation because they do, thankfully, take everybody, and then they don’t get the resources or the help and support that they need to be able to take care of every child’s education.
So I want parents to be able to exercise choice within the public school system – not outside of it but within it – because I am still a firm believer that the public school system is one of the real pillars of our democracy and it is a path for opportunity. But I am also fully aware that there are a lot of substandard public schools. But part of the reason for that is that policymakers and local politicians will not fund schools in poor areas that take care of poor children to the level that they need to be.
And you could get me going on this because it’s not – I mean, the corridor of shame right here in South Carolina, you get on there and you can see schools that are literally falling apart. I’ve been in some of those schools. I have seen the terrible physical conditions. That is an outrage. It is a rebuke to who we are as Americans to send any child to a school that you wouldn’t send your own child to. And so [we’ve got] a lot of work to do to make sure that public schools serve people but that doesn’t mean we don’t also provide options within the system so that parents can find what they think might work best for their kids.
And I want to put an end date to the debt. I mean, if you have been vigilant and diligent in paying it back, there’s got to be an end date. I also want to get more young people the option to go into income contingency repayment programs like I had and my husband had. We had loans but we got to pay them back as a percentage of income, not as a fixed interest rate. So we’re going to get the cost of student debt down.
But the other problem is we need to get the pay of people who are in the workforce up and it’s not going up. That was one of the first points I made. We recovered a lot of jobs – millions and millions of jobs. We’re down to 5% unemployment. But pay has not yet been rising.
So we’ve got to do more to get pay to go up, and there are obvious things to do like raise the minimum wage and then that usually has an upward impact on wages going up the scale. I want more companies to engage in profit-sharing because their employees help to create the profits and I want to see it go not just to the top.
We’re going to close loopholes and we’re going to make sure that people who are making huge salaries pay their fair share in taxes.
So we’re going to go after the problem of wages not rising so that you can get your debt down and hopefully your income up.

And there are good examples of it working. But increasingly in later years, it has not.
And there are two approaches. One, the Treasury Department and the bank regulators need to ensure the banks are meeting their obligations under community reinvestment. And there are a lot of good programs that we can point to. If they don’t know what to do, we can show them what to do and what will work to create economic opportunity.
And secondly, you mentioned Shore Bank, which I worked with, and then in Arkansas, I helped to start the Arkansas Development Corporation because I think that in addition to getting conventional banks to do what they can, we need some more of these development banks – like South Shore was the example – and what we did in Arkansas has had a real positive effects.
Now, the final thing I’ll say about this is, you know, there’s a big fight going on in Washington about the Dodd-Frank bill and the rules that it placed on the banking community primarily aimed at the biggest banks that were contributors to some of the problems that we had like the mortgage and other problems that we were talking about earlier.
A lot of community banks say “Hey, those rules fell on us too. We’re just a small community bank or a small regional bank.”
So I want to without giving any relief to the big banks because I do think they need to be regulated so they don’t get us in trouble again, I want to provide, you know, some opportunities for community banks to be able to once more be partners in community reinvestments. So those are my approaches.
But what I do want is for us to support research into medical marijuana because a lot more states have passed medical marijuana than have legalized marijuana. So we’ve got two different experiences or even experiments going on right now.
And the problem with medical marijuana is that there is a lot of anecdotal evidence for how well it works for certain conditions but we haven’t done any research. Why? Because it’s considered what’s called a Schedule I drug and you can’t even do research in it.
So I would like to move it from what’s called a Schedule I to Schedule II so that researchers at universities, at the National Institutes of Health could start researching what’s the best way to use it, how much dose does somebody need, how does it interact with other medications. Because if we’re going to have a lot of states setting up marijuana dispensaries so that people who have some kind of medical need are getting marijuana, we need to know what’s the quality of it, how much should you take, what should you avoid if you’re taking other medications. So that’s how I’m currently thinking about it.
I have another friend, a young lawyer, who has sickle cell. And she’s really, really smart, and she works really, really hard and then she has to go into the hospital.
I mean, this is a devastating disease. And so yes, I think we need to put more money, more time, more effort into figuring out how we’re going to finally cure and end sickle cell anemia.

In addition to the little merit badge things…I learned about teamwork. I learned about cooperating with other people. I learned how important it is that when you say you’re going to do something, you do everything you can to keep your word and do it.
I learned about how scouting has for so many decades now helped young women and young men learn things that they might not have otherwise learned.
You know, my family was not a camping family. You know, we drove every year from Chicago to Pennsylvania to see my grandparents and we slept in the car, and so we weren’t into the forests and the woods and all of that.
So learned specific things as well as general values and character traits that I think are really important for everybody to learn but which scouting has made a big difference in.
But I also believe the VA has done good things. And the Republicans are always trying to privatize everything – privatize education, privatize Social Security, privatize Medicare, and yes, privatize the VA.
So I’m going to fix it and I will appoint somebody with proven management experience who will weed out those who should not be there in the first place and programs that are not work, take what is good about the VA and make sure it is available to all of our veterans. That is my goal.

And we just had a study come out that said poor white middle aged Americans without a high school education are dying at a higher rate than they have ever died before – addiction, alcoholism, suicide.
So poverty is poverty.
There’s a great idea that Congressman Jim Clyburn has put forward called 10-20-30 that 10% of federal funds would go to communities where 20% of the people are living in poverty and have done so for more 30 years.
[Moderator: Two thirds of those counties are Republican counties.]
And white – predominately white. And so as Jim Clyburn pointed out to me when he was describing this to me, this would be a recipe for dealing with poverty everywhere based on the numbers.
If you’re living in an impoverished generational situation, then you need help and the government should not be turning its back on you.
And I’m in favor of empowerment. One of the programs that my husband put into place – The New Markets Tax Credit – was used to help build up poor rural communities, to provide more economic opportunities, and it’s been allowed to lapse by the Republican Congress. There are tools at our disposal.
But the point that you make is an especially important one. We need to be talking about this so that the caricatures and the stereotypes that too often flood the media are once and for all retired. Poor is poor.
And if you compare – and I was in Louisiana not so long ago – and the prior Democratic governor in Arkansas expanded Medicaid, got a special waiver from the federal government to do it in a way that he could get it through his legislature. But the fact is hundreds of thousands of poor Arkansans got it. Across the board in Louisiana, their Republican governor running for president wouldn’t do it so hundreds of thousands of people were left out.
Now, I don’t know how you justify that especially since the federal government is paying 100% of the cost until in a few years it’ll pay 90% of the cost.
Because we want people to be well. I mean, you talk about this recent study that I mentioned where you have middle aged white folks killing themselves, getting addicted to drugs and alcohol, not getting help for mental illness or substance abuse. That’s a health problem. And people are oftentimes – in rural areas especially – not as reachable through health systems.
So I think we’ve got to look at this from the perspective of what do we do to make our country healthier and the people most in need of that are poor people wherever they live and whoever they are.
So I feel passionately about this. As I said, my first job out of law school was with the Children’s Defense Fund started by Marian Wright Edelman from Bennettsville, South Carolina…My first job for the Children’s Defense Fund was coming to South Carolina to do an investigation about juveniles in adult jails. Sound familiar? So I mean, we make progress but then we kind of fall back. You cannot grow weary doing the work that is necessary to help people have dignity and develop their own potential, and that’s what health is about. If you don’t have that, you don’t have anything.

