
Good afternoon.
I want to thank the United Nations for hosting today’s events and putting the challenge of gender equality front and center on the international agenda.
I’m especially pleased to have so many leaders here from the private sector standing shoulder to shoulder with advocates who’ve worked tirelessly for equality for decades.
20 years ago, this was a lonelier struggle.
Today, we mark the progress that’s been made in the two decades since the international community gathered in Beijing and declared with one voice that human rights are women’s rights and women’s rights are human rights.
And because of advances in health, education, and legal protections, we can say that there has never been a better time in history to be born female.
Yet, as the comprehensive new report published by the Clinton Foundation and the Gates Foundation makes clear, despite all this progress, when it comes to the full participation of women and girls we’re just not there yet.
As I said today, this remains the great unfinished business of the 21st century.
And my passion for this fight burns as brightly today as it did 20 years ago.
I want to comment on a matter in the news today regarding Iran.
The President and his team are in the midst of intense negotiations. Their goal is a diplomatic solution that would close off Iran’s pathways to a nuclear bomb and give us unprecedented access and insight into Iran’s nuclear program.
Now, reasonable people can disagree about what exactly it will take to accomplish this objective, and we all must judge any final agreement on its merits.
But the recent letter from Republican Senators was out of step with the best traditions of American leadership, and one has to ask what was the purpose of this letter.
There appears to be two logical answers. Either these Senators were trying to be helpful to the Iranians or harmful to the Commander-in-Chief in the midst of high stakes international diplomacy. Either answer does discredit to the letter’s signatories.
Now, I would be pleased to talk more about this important matter, but I know there have been questions about my emails so I want to address that directly and then I will take a few questions from you.
There are four things that I want the public to know.
First, when I got to work as Secretary of State, I opted for convenience to use my personal email account, which was allowed by the State Department, because I thought it would be easier to carry one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.
Looking back, it would have been better if I’d simply used a second email account and carried a second phone, but at the time this didn’t seem like an issue.
Second, the vast majority of my work emails went to government employees at their government addresses, which meant they were captured and preserved immediately on the system at the State Department.
Third, after I left office, the State Department asked former Secretaries of State for our assistance in providing copies of work-related emails from our personal accounts.
I responded right away and provided all my emails that could possibly be work-related, which totaled roughly 55,000 printed pages even though I knew the State Department already had the vast majority of them.
We went through a thorough process to identify all of my work-related emails and delivered them to the State Department.
At the end, I chose not to keep my private personal emails – emails about planning Chelsea’s wedding or my mother’s funeral arrangements or condolence notes to friends as well as yoga routines, family vacations, the other things you’d typically find in inboxes.
No one wants their personal emails made public and I think most people understand that and respect that privacy.
Fourth, I took the unprecedented step of asking the State Department to make all my work-related emails public for everyone to see.
I am very proud at the work that I and my colleagues and our public servants at the department did during my four years as Secretary of State. And I look forward to people being able to see that for themselves.
Again, looking back it would have been better for me to use two separate phones and two email accounts. I thought using one device would be simpler and obviously it hasn’t worked out that way.
Now, I’m happy to take a few questions.

…If you were a man today, would all this fuss be made?
As I said, I saw it as a matter of convenience and it was allowed. Others had done it. According to the State Department, which recently said Secretary Kerry was the first Secretary of State to rely primarily on a state.gov email account.
And when I got there, I wanted to just use one device for both personal and work emails instead of two. It was allowed. And as I said, it was for convenience. And it was my practice to communicate with State Department and other government officials on their .gov accounts so those emails would be automatically saved in the State Department system to meet record-keeping requirements. And that is indeed what happened.
And I heard just a little while ago the State Department announced they would begin to post some of my emails, which I’m very glad to hear because I want it all out there.
And secondly, could you answer the questions that have been raised about foreign contributions from Middle Eastern countries like Saudi Arabia that abuse women or permit violence against women to the family foundation and whether that disturbs you as you are rightly celebrating 20 years of leadership on this issue?
I’ll give you some of the background.
In going through the emails, there were over 60,000 in total sent and received. About half were work-related and went to the State Department, and about half were personal that were not in any way related to my work.
I had no reason to save them but that was my decision because the federal guidelines are clear and the State Department request was clear for any government employee, it is that government employee’s responsibility to determine what’s personal and what’s work-related.
I am very confident in the process that we conducted and the emails that were produced. And I feel like once the American public begins to see the emails, they will have an unprecedented insight into a high government official’s daily communication, which I think will be quite interesting.
With respect to the foundation, I am very proud of the work the foundation does. I am very proud of the hundred of thousands of people who support the work of the foundation and the results that have been achieved for people here at home and around the world.
And I think that we are very clear about where we stand – certainly where I stand – on all of these issues. There can’t be any mistake about my passion concerning women’s rights here at home and around the world.
And I think that people who want to support the foundation know full well what it is we stand for and what we’re working on.

And I have to add even if I had two devices, which is obviously permitted; many people do that, you would still have to put the responsibility where it belongs, which is on the official.
So I did it for convenience and I now looking back think that it might have been smarter to have those two devices from the very beginning.
But out of an abundance of caution and care, you know, we wanted to send that message unequivocally. That is the responsibility of the individual and I have fulfilled that responsibility, and I have no doubt that we’ve done exactly what we should have done.
When the search was conducted, we were asking that any email be identified and preserved that could potentially be federal records, and that’s exactly what we did. And we went, as I said, beyond that, and the process produced over 30,000, you know, work emails. And I think that we have more than met the request from the State Department.
The server contains personal communications from my husband and me and I believe that I have met all of my responsibilities and the server will remain private.
And the State Department will be able over time to release all of the records that were provided.
And then separately, will this have any bearing or effect on your timing or decision about whether or not you run for President? Thank you.
So I think that the use of that server, which started with my husband certainly, proved to be effective and secure.
Now, with respect to any sort of future issues, look, I trust the American people to make their decisions about political and public matters. And I feel I’ve taken unprecedented steps to provide these work-related emails. They’re going to be in the public domain. And I think that Americans will find that interesting and I look forward to having a discussion about that.
And what do you think about this Republican idea of having an independent third party come in and examine your emails?
So even if you have a work-related device with a work-related .gov account, you choose what goes on that. That’s the way our system works.
And so we trust and count on the judgment of thousands – maybe millions – of people to make those decisions, and I feel that I did that and even more – that I went above and beyond what I was requested to do. And again, those will be out in the public domain and people will be able to judge for themselves.
Why did you not do that? Why did you not go along with State Department rules until two years after you left office?
And also, the President of the United States said he was unaware that you had this unusual email arrangement. The White House Counsel’s office says that you never approved this arrangement through them. Why did you not do that? Why do you apparently caught the White House by surprise?
…Does all of this affect your decision in any way on whether or not to run for President?
First, the laws and regulations in effect when I was Secretary of State allowed me to use my email for work. That is undisputed.
Secondly, under the Federal Records Act, records are defined as reported information regardless of its form or characteristics.
And in meeting the record-keeping obligations, it was my practice to email government officials on their state or other .gov accounts so that the emails were immediately captured and preserved.
Now, there are different rules governing the White House than there are governing the rest of the executive branch. And in order to address the requirements I was under, I did exactly what I have said. I emailed two people and I not only knew – I expected that then to be captured in the State Department or any other government agency that I was emailing to at a .gov account.
What happened in late summer, early fall is that the State Department sent a letter to former Secretaries of State, not just me, asking for some assistance in providing any work-related emails that might be on the personal email.
And what I did was to direct, you know, my counsel to conduct a thorough investigation and to err on the side of providing anything that could be connected to work. They did that. That was my obligation. I fully fulfilled it and then I took the unprecedented step of saying, “Go ahead and release them and let people see them.”
At the end of the process.
Thank you. Thank you.
