…Thank you very, very much. I am very conscious of the fact that I am all that stands between you and the kick-off of the Patriots game. But it is wonderful to be here.
And I want to thank everyone who has worked so hard to build this party and the campaign from the bottom up all over this state.
I am so honored to have the support of your terrific Senator Jeanne Shaheen and your amazing governor and your next Senator Maggie Hassan. They inspire me everyday with their leadership.
And I also want to thank Congresswoman [Ann] Kuster and Carol Shea-Porter for your support and all of the Senators, representatives, executive councillors, local leaders, grassroots organizers, volunteers, who are doing so much across this state.
With your help we are going to elect Democrats up and down the ballot next year.
Now, some of you know New Hampshire’s always been a special place for me and my family. You have fought for me and now I’m fighting for you.
Since the start of this campaign, I’ve heard the worries that keep New Hampshire families up at night and I’ve heard the hopes and the dreams that get you up every morning.
The stress you feel when the bills pile up just walking to the mailbox can sometimes seem like an act of courage.
But also the pride of finally getting that better job, feeling secure enough to put a little more away for your retirement.
You have shared with me the feelings that you have when you’re caring for an aging parent or a child suffering from substance abuse or a loved one with a mental illness.
I listened to your stories and am humbled by the courage and resilience. It can take all the strength you have, especially if you’re already under pressure at work and there isn’t anyone to lean on at home.
I know we can do better.
Just like you found a way to make it work in the worst of the recession – taking a second job, working an extra shift, putting away a little extra money when you could – we’re going to make this recovery work for you.
We’re going to make our economy and our country work for everyone, not just those at the top.
We’re not going to do it by making promises we can’t keep. We’re going to do it the way we’ve always done it before – rolling up our sleeves and getting the job done together.
Let’s start with where we are. Thanks to the hard work and determination of the American people, we’ve come back from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
And I want to ask you to remember the mess President Obama inherited. I want you to remember the facts. Our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House.
This is evidence that our Republican friends would prefer we forget and they would do everything they can to try to impose a state of collective amnesia upon us.
But I’m not going to let them forget.
In the last 35 years, we’ve had five presidents – three Republicans and two Democrats.
I happen to know both those Democrats. And each of them inherited economic problems from their Republican predecessor.
In my husband’s case, it was a recession and the fact that the debt of the United States had been quadrupled in the prior 12 years.
I remember Bill telling me shortly after the election “It’s so much worse than they told us.”
He was asked one time “What did you bring to the White House from Arkansas?” And he paused and he thought and he said, “Well, arithmetic, I guess.”
And he got to work. Eight years later, we had 23 million new jobs and incomes rose for everybody, not just those at the top but people in the middle, working people, and poor people all saw their incomes go up.
And we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus.
But you would think that might have given the Republicans an idea about how to run the economy. But instead, they went right back to trickle down economics – cutting taxes on the wealthy, getting out of the way of corporations, and we know what happened.
Shortly after the ’08 elections, President-elect Obama called and asked me if I’d come to see him in Chicago. I didn’t know why. I turned out he wanted to ask me to be Secretary of State. But before we got talking about that, he said to me “It is so much worse than they told us.” I said, “I’ve heard that before.”
But it was. We were on a brink of a Great Depression. We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
Before the president turned it around, 9 million Americans had lost their jobs, 5 million homes lost to foreclosure, $13 trillion in family wealth disappeared.
Now, I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for saving the economy from the Republican that he inherited.
But we’re still not running the way America should. Paychecks for most people have barely budged. But corporate profits and CEO pay are at near record highs.
And something is very wrong when the top 25 hedge fund managers make more in a year than all of the kindergarten teachers in America combined.
Now, I know there are big changes in our economy that didn’t start with the Great Recession and they won’t end with the recovery.
And many Americans are finding it harder and harder to get ahead. There are still too many barriers to opportunity, too much talent that sits on the sidelines – costs that hit hardworking families like prescription drugs, child care, and college tuition are all rising faster than incomes.
That’s why in this campaign, I’m fighting for an economy where nothing holds you back and everyone who works hard can get ahead again.
Opportunity should be as universal as talent because America can only live up to our potential when every person can live up to his or hers.
Let me tell you about the America we’re fighting for together. It’s an America that creates the good-paying jobs of the future where wages rise faster than costs.
Today in Boston, I laid out a plan to help put Americans to work repairing our roads and bridges and tunnels and all of the airports and the ports and the rail systems. Building that economy for the future.
I was very proud to be endorsed by Mayor Walsh and have so many of the construction trade unions that have endorsed me there because they know I’m going to put them back to work.
We will establish a national infrastructure bank to get more public and private investment flowing and not just bricks and mortars as important as those are.
By 2020, I want 100% of American households who have access to quality affordable high speed Internet no matter where they live.
We also have to set some big goals for clean energy and for scientific research.
I’ve said let’s install a half a billion solar panels in four years and enough renewable energy to power every home in the next 10 years and to get paychecks growing we must raise the minimum wage so that it no longer is a poverty wage.
Now, you know the Republicans don’t favor that. You’ve heard them. They’ve been criss-crossing New Hampshire day in and day out.
And so far as I can tell not one of them believes in raising the minimum wage.
Now, here’s what I don’t understand about this. I think it’s really unfair when people work full time and particularly since two-thirds of minimum wage workers are women work full time and can’t get themselves out of poverty.
But it’s also shortsighted. We are a 70% consumption economy. You raise the minimum wage. We know that then puts upward pressure on additional wages. That means more customers for New Hampshire businesses. It means more financial security for New Hampshire families. It actually helps to spur the recovery.
So ask the Republicans next time you see them going through town “What is it you don’t like about raising the minimum wage to help people get ahead and to help our economy do better?”
And you know, I’m almost embarrassed saying this. It is November of 2015 after all. But it is time to finally guarantee equal pay for women.
Now, again, this is another one of those issues that the Republicans just don’t believe they should be for. I don’t get this either because when you shortchange women you shortchange families you shortchange the economy.
So the next time they come through one of the towns in New Hampshire, you see them on the street, stop them and ask them why don’t they believe in equal pay for equal work for women?
And we have to make it easier for small businesses to get the loans they need to grow and hire, not just the corporations who can afford the lawyers and the lobbyists to get the loans they want in order to grow even bigger than they are.
And we have to close the loopholes that let corporations ship jobs and profits overseas and instead reward businesses that invest right here in America, training new workers, sharing profits with their employees instead of bigger bonuses for CEOs. If it works for Market Basket here in New England, it can work for America.
Now, so far as I know I’m the only candidate in this race who has pledged to raise your wages not your taxes.
I think those at the top should pay more and you should pay less.
So I have proposed tax cuts to help middle class families pay for college, pay for health care, and pay to care for an elderly parent.
And I will oppose any plan or proposal that takes more money out of your paychecks.
We’re fighting for an America where everyone who works hard has a ladder of opportunity and that starts with high quality pre-school available for every family in this country.
All of our kids deserve the best start in life. It also means getting back to what works in K-12 education and supporting our teachers not scapegoating them.
It means making college affordable for everyone. You should not have to borrow a dime to pay tuition at a public college or university and everyone should be able to refinance their student debt just like they can refinance a mortgage or a car loan.
But when it comes to affordable college, I will not spend your tax dollars paying for Donald Trump’s kids or any other millionaire’s or billionaire’s kids to go to college. That is not a good investment. That is not smart. I want to help middle class, working class, poor kids get the chance to go to college again instead of being priced out.
And I believe a true ladder of opportunity has to include life-long learning, job training, and apprenticeships. Today in Boston, I talked about apprenticeships because I think it’s one of the best ways to help prepare not only young people but people returning to the work force for the jobs that we’re going to have.
I also believe that middle class jobs should lead to a secure retirement that you can count on and I will fight to protect Social Security and expand it for those who need it most especially elderly women, widows and people who’ve spent years caring for others without getting paid.
The caregivers of America deserve security just like everyone else.
Now, we’re also fighting for an America that leads the world with strength and smarts, keeping our people safe and defeating the terrorist networks that threaten us.
We have to use every pillar of American power to get more allies and partners off the sidelines to go after ISIS in the air, on the ground, and in cyberspace.
But we cannot give into the fear mongers who say that we’re at war with Islam or that we should put every Muslim in America in a government database. That’s not who we are and besides that is not smart law enforcement techniques for us finding out the information we need to keep us safe in the first place.
Look, the fact is no other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21st century. I happen to think America already is great. We just have to make it greater by working together and solving our problems again.
In this election, you aren’t just choosing a president. You’re choosing a commander-in-chief. And I promise you this: I will get up every single day and do whatever it takes to make sure our country is safe and strong.
I take this very personally. I was a Senator from New York on 9/11.
I spent years working with the victims of that horrific attack, working with the few survivors who were so grievously injured, working with the first responders and the construction workers who ran toward the pile and stayed there for months, ending up sick themselves.
So I take a backseat to no one when I tell you I will do whatever is necessary to protect us. But I will also do it in a way that furthers and promotes our values and makes it absolutely clear that this country of ours will continue to lead the world not only in the dangerous spots but in pursuit of the opportunities that will make us even greater in the future.
Now, we’re also fighting for an America where we lift each other up and we have each other’s backs.
This is American where we support families, neighborhoods, and communities because when families are strong our country is strong, where more young people seize the opportunity and responsibility of national service. And when they do, we’ll make sure that they can go to college absolutely debt free.
Where immigrant families can stay together and have a real path to citizenship not get ripped apart by deportation.
Where we end discrimination against LGBT Americans once and for all. It’s just wrong. It’s wrong in many places in our country you can be married on Saturday but fired on Monday for who you are and who you love. And that has to change.
The kind of America that I’m working toward will be one where people struggling with heroin, prescription drugs, and other substance abuse get the treatment they need and end up in recovery not in prison.
An America where we rebuild trust and respect between law enforcement and the communities they serve and work hopefully in a bipartisan way for criminal justice reform and to end the era of mass incarceration.
And it’s an America where we finally together stand up to the gun lobby.
As you know, on Friday, there was another mass shooting this time in Colorado. Our condolences and prayers are with the families of the victims.
And we think particularly of that brave, young police officer who rushed toward danger to protect others.
How many more Americans need to die before we take action?
Common sense steps like comprehensive background checks, closing the loopholes that let guns fall into the wrong hands even people on the terrorist watch list.
This is truly unbelievable that after what we’ve seen in Paris and other places the Republicans will not bring up a bill that will prohibit anyone on the no-fly list from buying a gun in America.
If you are too dangerous to fly in America, you are too dangerous to buy a gun in America.
And we must get rid of the special immunity Congress gave the gun industry. That was a mistake plain and simple and we need to reverse it.
The shooting on Friday was at, as you know, a Planned Parenthood clinic – a place where lots of women get health care need – breast exams, STD testing, contraception, and yes, safe and legal abortions. We should be supporting Planned Parenthood, not attacking it.
And it is way past time for us to protect women’s health and respect women’s rights, not use them as political footballs.
Here in New Hampshire, Republicans on your Executive Council cut off funding to Planned Parenthood.
And in Congress and on the campaign trail, Republicans who claim they just hate big government are only too happy to have government step in when it comes to women’s bodies and health.
It’s wrong, and we’re not going to stand for it.
I know when I talk like this some people, especially of the Republican persuasion, say I’m playing the gender card.
Well, if talking about women’s health, equal pay, paid family leave, and affordable child care is playing the gender card, deal me in.
Now, my fellow Democrats for too long Republicans have stacked the deck for those at the top, pushing an out-of-touch, out-of-date agenda that failed us and will rip away all the progress we’ve made. You know what they’ll do. They’re telling you what they’ll do.
It’s been my experience hanging around politics for a few years when people tell you what they intend to do, take them at their word. Don’t act surprised when they then try to do it.
So you know what they’ll do.
They’ll give more tax cuts to the super wealthy. They’ll let powerful interests write their own rules – the gun lobby, pharmaceutical companies, big banks, and polluters. That’s who they’re fighting for.
Republicans have voted nearly 60 times to repeal or weaken the Affordable Care Act.
Earlier this month, I met a woman named Amy in Windham. Four years ago, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. She’s gone through 16 rounds of chemo, radiation, surgery. Thankfully she had good health insurance.
But if the Affordable Care Act is scrapped, which a Republican president and a Republican Congress will do, insurance companies will be able to go back to discriminating against pre-existing conditions and people like Amy could be left to fend for themselves.
She’s fearless when it comes to cancer but she told me how scared she is about losing her insurance.
Yes, we have a lot of work to do to bring down costs and improve quality of health care in our country but we are not – we are not – going back. We can’t go back to where women were charged more than men.
So yes, we’ll improve quality of health care. I want to bring down out of pocket expenses. I want to tackle the rising of costs of prescription drugs.
But I will not give in to those who think we should rip up the Affordable Care Act and throw our country back into a contentious debate where the insurance companies and the drug companies are likely to call the shots again.
This is not going to be easy but when it comes to prescription drugs, just know a few things because already the drug companies are saying that, you know, I’m going to prevent them from doing research that will save lives. Well, ask them why they spend more money advertising drugs than doing research. Ask them why the American taxpayer pays for the NIH to help them with the research, pays for the FDA to test whether a drug is safe and effective, and then we pay the highest prices in the world for the very same drugs.
We’re going to make sure Medicare can negotiate for lower prices just like it happens in Canada, in Europe, and everywhere else in the advanced economies.
So, I don’t want to tell you that any of this will be easy. I know it won’t be.
I still have the scars from health care reform back in the early ‘90s. But I didn’t quit. I got up and we finally got the children’s health insurance program passed.
So we have to work together. You should expect all of us who are running for president – all of us – to actually explain how we’re going to accomplish what we say we will do.
Now, some candidates may be running to make a point. I’m running to make a difference – a real difference for you and your families across our country.
There is a lot we can do to break the gridlock and dysfunction.
We can fight back against the war on voting in this country. Instead of making it harder to vote, as Republicans are doing, we should be making it easier with early voting everywhere and automatic universal registration for everyone who turns 18 unless they opt out.
And we can’t let Republicans and their donors keep rigging our elections with secret unaccountable money. We need to amplify the voices of everyday Americans with robust public financing and we need a Supreme Court that protects the right of every citizen to vote, not the right of every corporation to buy elections.
And I will tell you this. I will tell you this. Even if it takes a constitutional amendment, we will overturn Citizens United.
You know, from my very first job going door to door for the Children’s Defense Fund and more than 30 years of fighting for kids and women, families and our country, I’ve learned how to make progress. Start with our values. What we’ve learned from our families, our faith, our country that has to be our guide. Then sit down and really listen to people, try to understand the problems that may hold them back and the anxieties that weigh them down. Bring people together to find smart solutions guided by evidence, not ideology. Then work like crazy to get results.
We have to know when to stand our ground, when to find common ground. That’s the way I worked with Republicans and Democrats to reform our foster care and adoption system, extend health care benefits to National Guard and Reserve, provide 9/11 first responders with the health care they needed, create that children’s health insurance program. That’s how I helped round up votes in a divided Senate to pass a landmark treaty with Russia that reduced the number of nuclear weapons that could threaten our country.
Most of all though we’re only going to make progress if we remember that everybody has a role to play in lifting up our country.
There’s nothing wrong with America that can’t be cured by what’s right with America.
And I know it is unusual – it is unusual for a candidate for president, especially in these divisive times to say we need more love and kindness but that’s exactly what we need in America right now.
So please, as we go through this election, let’s think about ways we could look out for one another, try to walk in each other’s shoes, make sure no one in America feels left out or left behind.
I’m running for president for all Americans, for the struggling, the striving, and the successful because everybody can contribute to make our country even better.
For the family in Keane keeping a 100-year-old furniture business going and growing, the students I met at Exeter who dreamed of starting their own small businesses someday. I’m running for the veterans I sat with in Deering who served our country with honor and courage. For Keith, the librarian from Brookline, whose mother has Alzheimer’s and he can’t afford a full-time caretaker so he brings her to work with him and doesn’t know where else to turn.
I’m running for the young man who told me he got his first real job at 17 as a cashier at the store where his mother worked. She’d been there for years and when he brought home his first paycheck and showed her, he saw his mom’s face fall and asked her “What’s wrong?” She looked up and said, “I’ll tell you what’s wrong. You’re making more an hour having just started than I’m making having worked there four years.”
I’m running for everyone who’s ever been knocked down but refused to be counted out. That’s a lesson my mother taught me a long time ago and that’s the lesson I intend to teach my daughter and my granddaughter as long as I’m able.
…You deserve a president who will listen to you, fight for you, and deliver for you.
And if we do this together, we’re going to build that America that we all desperately want to see again where our success if measured by how many people work their way into the middle class not how many CEO get bonuses.
I’m the granddaughter of a factory worker from Scranton, Pennsylvania, and I’m now the grandmother of a wonderful little girl that we had the pleasure of being with over Thanksgiving. Bill and I will do everything we can to ensure she has every opportunity to succeed. But I don’t think you should have to be the granddaughter of a former president to share in the promise of America.
The granddaughters and the grandsons of factory workers and teachers and firefighters and truck drivers should have that chance too.
So let’s get together. Let’s run a campaign. Let’s win. Let’s build an America where there are no ceilings for anyone. Let’s make it happen.
Thank you all so much!
