
Thank you so much!
Oh my gosh, I am so happy to be here. But I have to tell you I am so thrilled that Demi [Lovato] is here with us.
And you already know what an extraordinary talent she is and you got a taste of that tonight.
I want to thank her for how brave she is, how confident she is, because she is using her voice not only to sing and inspire us through that, she’s using her voice to reach out to so many people who need a little bit of help themselves, who have some challenges that she is determined to help people find their way through.
And I appreciate that because I think we all need to help each other along life’s way, and Demi, you have been just an extraordinary example for so many in the way that you have talked about issues that people find sometimes hard to talk about.
And you’ve given hope and a lot of positive reinforcement to so many.
And I’m thrilled you’re here lending your voice and your example to our efforts to get people to come out and caucus on February 1st.
How many of you are precinct captains, team leaders, volunteers? People who are already involved, thank you so much!
And somewhere in this big crowd is Congressman Dave Loebsack. I know. And I’m thrilled to have him here as well.
It’s going to be an exciting 10 or 11 days now until we get to the caucus and I am hoping that each and every one of you will get interested, get involved, be part of this process.
You know, people in Iowa literally are being watched not just around our country but around the world because you get the first chance to decide who should be the next president of the United States.
And I would be so thrilled and honored if you came and caucused for me on Feb. 1st.
And I promise you I will work as hard as I know how to take it to the Republicans to win the election in November of 2016.
I am proud of the progress we’ve made under President Obama, and I don’t want anybody sending us back.
So please, if you haven’t already, sign up to be part of this campaign not only to deal with the big issues like how do we get the economy working for everybody not just those at the top and raise incomes, how do we keep our country safe and lead the world with peace, prosperity, and security, and how do we deal with a lot of those problems that people across Iowa talk to me about – how are you going to afford college, how are we going to get the cost of student debt down, how are we going to make it easier for people to afford everything from prescription drugs to child care, how are we going to defend our rights, our civil rights, human rights, women’s rights, gay rights, voting rights, workers’ rights, and how are we going to take on those big special interests who are always trying to put the wall against the kind of progress we believe in. I’m going to take them on whether they’re insurance companies or banks or drug companies or the gun lobby. We’re not going to let them have their way.
So this is a great night here at the university made very special by this extraordinary young woman. Please, join us in helping to change our country, keep it on a progressive path, make sure we don’t go back. We go forward with confidence.
Thank you, Demi!
