
I am very grateful to have this chance to be in Pittsburgh so close to this election.
Now, I know the Steelers have a big game on Sunday against Baltimore. Let’s hear it for Coach Tomlin and the team.
His wonderful wife, Kiya, is here, and I’m very proud to have the support of Dan Rooney and Pat Rooney and the entire Rooney family.
Dan was an ambassador to Ireland when I was Secretary of State, and wherever he goes, he’s a great ambassador for Pittsburgh.
So I thank Dan and I thank Jim Rooney who was so helpful in putting this together and everyone from the Steeler’s family.
Now, you’ve just heard two terrific speeches, haven’t you?
I can’t tell you how excited I am to be back here in Pittsburgh with one of your own, somebody who has made it but never forgot where he came from, someone who I really admire because of the way he’s done his business. And it’s an absolute honor, Mark [Cuban], to have your support in this campaign.
And I’ll have more to say my friend, Katie McGinty, but boy I hope you’re going to send her to Washington.
I also – I want to recognize my friend and former colleague, Sen. Bob Casey, who is here. Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto is here. Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald who is here…
It’s great to have all of these strong supporters out in these last four days. That’s all that’s left in what may be the most important election of our lifetimes.
So are you ready to vote, Pittsburgh?
Are you ready to volunteer these last four days to get out the vote?
Are you ready to elect Katie McGinty to the United States Senate?
I’ll tell you, I’ve known Katie. She’s a real fighter. And she will be the kind of independent voice that Pennsylvania families deserve.
And unlike her opponent, she’s never been afraid to stand up to Donald Trump.
And now, let me ask you, are you ready to choose our next president and commander-in-chief?
Wow! I’ll tell you. I think this is one of the best places for a crowd event ever.
Folks here get all fired up and energized.
…

And I have to ask you. Did any of you see any of the debates?
Well, I spent 4.5 hours standing next to Donald Trump, proving conclusively I have the stamina to be the next president…
But you know, he said so many things in those debates.
You know, when you debate in front of, you know, 60, 70, 80 million plus people, you’ve got to have a sense of preparation, readiness, calmness, composure.
And I’ll tell you some of what I heard coming from my opponent, it was really hard not to go “What did you say?!”
You know, he kept saying things like, “Well, what have you done for 30 years?”
Well, we know what he’s done for 30 years, and I mean, back in the 70s he started with discriminating against African-Americans and Latinos by refusing to rent them apartments in New York.
He has a long history of insulting people. It did not just start in the campaign. You can [inaudible…] and find what he said about all kinds of folks.
And one of the things I discovered in preparing for the debates, which I was kind of surprised by, is that he took out a full-page ad in 1987 to criticize President Reagan. So he is a equal opportunity insulter.
You know, I did choose a different path from him. I have spent my career fighting for kids and families, and I’m proud that I have.
I helped to start something called the Children’s Health Insurance Program as First Lady. It covers 8 million kids.
And I have to tell you that traveling around Pennsylvania, really, anywhere in the country, I meet people who have been affected the kind of changes that we can do that give more folks a chance to get ahead.
I’m all about making sure the American dream is big enough for everybody. And we’re going to knock down the barriers that stand in the way.
And you know, if you don’t have your health, it’s pretty hard to get ahead. Right?
And so I meet families who tell me what that meant, and it really – it makes me very grateful.
And I was a senator from New York on 9/11, and I spent my eight years in the Senate helping to rebuild New York, keep us safer at home, and to provide health care to our brave first responders – our firefighters, our police, our EMTs – who ran toward danger.
And as your Secretary of State, I traveled to 112 countries, negotiated cease-fires, reduced the threat of nuclear weapons, stood up for human rights and women’s rights and worker’s rights and LGBT rights.
Now, I really believe that if you want to get things done that will help people, you start by listening to people, bringing them together.
Now, I know that’s not very exciting. I admit. And I do feel kind of sorry for the press covering me because what are they going to say? For the 100th time, she was listening to people.
I get that. But everything I’ve done started there. And then you bring people together and you put them around the table. They don’t all agree with each other. And then you work to find common ground. That’s what I did in the Senate and as Secretary of State.
I could have never gotten anything done if I hadn’t worked with Republicans and others who had different points of view.
And I want you to know if you elect me on Tuesday, that is the kind of president I will be – listening, working, finding common ground.
And from the very first day of this campaign, I’ve been putting forward my ideas about how to help you and your families get ahead.
And I truly believe you deserve a candidate you can vote for, not just someone to vote against.
And so, you can go to my website. Tim Kaine and I wrote a book called Stronger Together.

Because I want you to know what the agenda is and I want you to hold me accountable.
When I come back to Pittsburgh, which I hope to do on a regular basis, I want people to say, “Hey, I saw where you wanted to more on infrastructure. How’s that going? How many new jobs do we have? What kinds of opportunities do we have with clean, renewable energy jobs? What about raising the national minimum wage?”
Now, one way or another, America is going to have a new president on Jan. 20th, right?
And people say all the time, well, they want change. Well, we will get change. Change is inevitable. That is certain. The question is what kind of change are we going to have?
And here’s where I think the choice could not be clearer. Are we going to build a stronger, fairer, better America? Or are we going to fear each other and the future? Hunkered down against each other? I don’t think that will lead to anything positive.
And what I hope we will do in this election and these remaining four days is to think about the kind of country we want. Imagine what we can do together.
Every time I come into Pittsburgh, because I started driving through Pittsburgh decades ago because my dad was from Scranton and we drove through Pennsylvania every year and we took different routes and we went to different places. And I with my own eyes have seen the ups and the downs of this great city.
And now, when I drive in, what do I see? I see a positive, optimistic, confident city making progress, moving forward.
And I don’t think you do anything in life unless you kind of imagine what it will look like and then you get to work to do it.
That’s how Mark has built these great companies.
Right here in Pittsburgh when he was a young guy and working hard for everything he had, he got a chance to start imagining and then he got a chance to start acting and producing results. Well, that’s the way it works.
That’s the way it works with the Steelers. Right?
I mean, people imagine what the team can be like. They plan. The coaches, they work hard. The players like Mel and Franco, they practice. They plan.
You don’t just say, “Hey, just get out in the field. Do whatever you want.” That’s not the way it works, my friends.
And so what I’m hoping is that we will imagine two different Americas.
Just for the sake of this exercise, imagine it’s Donald Trump standing in front of the Capitol.
And we already know a lot about him – someone who demeans women, mocks people with disabilities, insults African-Americans and Latinos, and demonizes immigrants and Muslims, and pits people against each other instead of pulling us together.
And think about what it would mean to entrust the nuclear codes to someone with a very thin skin who lashes out at anyone who challenges him.
Imagine how easily it could be that Donald Trump would feel insulted and start a real war, not just a Twitter war at 3 a.m.
Imagine what it would mean for our economy to have someone who built his career exploiting workers, stiffing small businesses.
Now, you heard earlier from Andrew Tesoro. He designed a building for Donald Trump. Trump told him he loved it. It was one of his golf courses. And then Trump would not pay the bill.
Now, Andrew didn’t have the resources to sue the Trump Organization. So Trump just walked away from what was owed.
This is someone who personally signed, not some executive, he personally signed a contract with a union-busting firm to keep workers at one of his hotels from being able to organize and bargain collectively.
And just yesterday, Donald Trump was told he was breaking the law by not negotiating with his hotel workers in Las Vegas.

And we know and the steel workers sure know he chose to build two of his buildings with Chinese steel and aluminum instead of supporting America’s steel industry and American steel workers.
Everywhere he goes, he leaves people behind.
You know, one of my goals as president is to encourage more companies to do what Mark did with profit-sharing.
If any of you were with us when Mark endorsed me, Tim Kaine and I were here in Pittsburgh, and he talked about how he had shared the profits of his company, including the profits he gained when he sold his companies. I think you told me, Mark, you made 300 millionaires at your first company.
Look, we’ve got to have a strong private sector. We need business to be creating more jobs.
I really like the kind of jobs and business that Mark does because what he does is to worry about and take care of the people who help make him successful in the first place.
Now, imagine having a president who owes hundreds of millions of dollars to foreign banks and other foreign entities that he doesn’t tell us about.
Ask yourself – so if he’s sitting across the table negotiating with people from those countries, is he going to put his own financial interests ahead of America’s interests?
I can tell you this. When I’m sitting across the table from the Russians or anyone else, I know who I’m representing – the American people and our interests.
Now, my friends, we’ve got some good news this morning. Our economy created 161,000 jobs last month. That is 73 straight months of job growth.
And I believe that our economy is poised to really take off and thrive.
But we need to make sure the economy is working for everyone, not just those at the top. And that is my pledge.
I believe in growth from the middle out and the bottom up. When the middle class thrives, America thrives.
Donald Trump believes something different. He wants an economy that works for him. That’s why he wants to give the biggest tax breaks in history to the super wealthy and big corporations. His own family would get $4 billion tax break.
Now, figure that out. We know he hasn’t paid taxes. Right?
If it turns out that he’s as rich as he claims, it would be trickle down economics on steroids. The wealthy will be paying lower tax rates than ever.
His plan – and this is what I want you to hear. So he’s taking care of himself. He’s taking care of his family. He’s taking care of the super wealthy and corporations.
His plan would actually raise taxes on 26 million low-income and middle class people.
He would hit especially hard 51% of single parents would see their taxes go up.
That means that 316,000 working families in Pennsylvania would pay more under Donald’s plan.
Honestly, I don’t know how he lives with himself. Doesn’t he see – doesn’t he see what we see? The millions of moms and dads struggling to make ends meet, balance the demands of work and family, or does he just not care?
Remember, this is a man who said pregnancy is an inconvenience for an employer.
He has said – and I quote – “putting a wife to work is a very dangerous thing”.
Well, I see things differently. When I say we need to make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top, I mean everyone.
Families are facing a lot of pressures. In many families, women are contributing to the income of their families or they are the sole – the sole – income in the family.

More people than ever are working gigs on the side just to make extra money or to make ends meet.
And for working families, the cost of everything is going up, from child care to prescription drugs to college education.
And think we all know somebody who’s working two minimum wage jobs and trying to raise their families at the same time.
It’s hard being good workers and good parents.
And we know young people who want to start a small business, the way Mark did it when he got going, and maybe they want to buy a first home or they just got married and they’re trying to get ahead in life and student debt is holding them back.
And I want us to know that I will do everything that I can to help ease the cost of middle class and working and poor families so that more people can do better.
And right now, so many of the people, so many of the people who are doing the toughest, most important jobs in our country are getting paid the least and a lot of them are women and people are color. Right?
Child care workers, trying to take care of our kids. Nurses, who work the night shift and spend more time with their patients than the doctors do. The home health aides who keep our seniors independent and healthy.
There are so many jobs of value to our society where the paychecks don’t reflect how important they are.
So I will do everything I can to get incomes rising for hardworking people, whether you work in steel, whether you work in a factory, whether you’re a machinist, a nurse, a teacher, a firefighter, a police officer, whatever you are, you deserve to be a part of a growing thriving middle class economy.
And so that’s why, that’s why we’re going to raise the national minimum wage and we’re going to join every other advanced economy and make sure we’ve got paid family and medical leave so you can take care of them…
And here it is 2016. Don’t you think it’s finally time to guarantee equal pay for women?
Well, I’ve got to tell you, this is not a woman’s issue. It’s a family issue.
If you have a mother, a wife, a daughter, a sister, you want her to be paid equally because that goes to your family’s bottom line.
Now, I’ve gotten sort of used to the fact that when I talk about equal pay or paid family leave or affordable child care, Donald Trump and his supporters say that I’m playing the woman card. Well, I’ll tell you what. If fighting for those kids and family issues is playing the woman’s card, you know what I say, deal me in.
We are going to invest in our people, especially our young people. We don’t have anybody to waste or leave behind. We can’t leave any talent on the sidelines.
And we’ve got to make sure we fight against discrimination. We’ve got to work in communities where factories have closed and nothing has come in to replace it like so many places in central and western PA.
And we’re going to make the biggest investment in good-paying jobs since World War II.
There’s a lot of good work to be done in this country and that work will put people in jobs here in America that cannot be exported. They’ve got to be done right here.
So my friends, we’re going to make our economy stronger for decades. We’re going to make America the clean energy super power. We’re going to produce enough renewable energy to power every home.
We’re going to make it easier for small businesses and entrepreneurs to get the credit they need to grow.
And we’re going to make it possible again to say and believe it that in America if you can dream it, you can build it.
And part of that dream is making sure people get the education and the skills they need.
So here’s what I want to do. Starting in pre-school, I want to better prepare every kid to do well in real school. Right?

I want every kid to have good schools and good teachers in every zip code in America, not just some.
I want us to bring back technical education to high school. And once again, lift up those good-paying necessary jobs that don’t require a four-year college degree.
I want us to do more with our community colleges and more apprenticeship programs by unions and businesses to help prepare people.
And I am tired of meeting young people who can’t either start or finish college because they can’t afford it.
We’re going to make public colleges and universities tuition free if you make less than $125,000 a year.
And for people who are struggling with student debt, we’re going to help you refinance it, get the lower interest rates you deserve to have, help you pay it back and get up from under it.
Now, you know, I have a lot of ideas. I could keep you here until the game starts on Sunday.
You know I like to make lists and I especially like crossing things off.
Somebody told me that’s kind of a woman thing. We make lists all the time.
I make lists of my lists.
But I have a list about what we’re going to do, and it’s because it all comes down to this: I love our country and I believe in the American people. And I know there’s nothing we can’t achieve if we work together.
So as you head to the polls, as you talk to your friends and neighbors who might still be deciding who to vote for, please ask them to search their heart about what kind of country we want for our kids and our grandkids.
It is not as important that they think about voting for me as it is that they think about voting for themselves.
Every issue we care about is on the ballot on Tuesday, and I know that if we have a big win on Tuesday, we will have a big win behind our backs going into government in January.
So tell everybody please to vote and you can make the difference going to the polls on Tuesday, Nov. 8th.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com to confirm your voting location or to find out how to send in an absentee ballot.
We are on track right now to having the biggest turnout in American history.
People in states where they have early voting have already set a record. We have 31 million people who’ve already voted.
And if you know anybody here in Pittsburgh or in western PA who’s thinking about voting for Trump, please stage an intervention before it’s too late.
I mean, really, just sit down with them and ask them what they care about.
And if they say they’re just frustrated or angry, say you understand but anger is not a plan. We’ve got work to do. We’re going to roll up our sleeves and we’re going to do it together.
And if you can give us any time, if you can give us any time to volunteer, go to HillaryClinton.com to sign up or text JOIN at 47246.
Because believe me, I don’t want any of us – not me and not you – to wake up on Wednesday and think if we’d only done a little bit more, things would have turned out differently.
Sometimes the fate of the greatest nations comes down to single moments in time.
This is one of those make or break moments for the United States. It is in your hands.
And when your kids and your grandkids ask what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, I hope you’ll be able to say I voted for a better, stronger, fairer America where we don’t build walls, we build bridges, and where we build the future that we want, and where we prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you all!

Hello Pittsburgh!
Whoa! Hello back there!
Thank you. Thank you!
Wow! It’s great to be here at this extraordinary time in our country’s history at this great university to have a chance on a beautiful day to lift our sights, to think about what we are capable doing together, the kind of future that we can create if we search for and find common ground.
And it is thrilling to have traveled across our country to see the hopefulness, to talk about the positive changes that are occurring, to really see America at its best.
And tomorrow, each and every one of you gets to make a decision as to whether or not first you will vote because in Pennsylvania, it’s all about election day. Other places around the country have been voting for weeks.
And what you will vote for.
I’m here to ask you to vote for yourselves, vote for your families, vote for you futures, vote on the issues that matter to you because they are on ballot, not just    my name and my opponent’s name.
…[Acknowledgements of public dignitaries omitted]
…We are on the path to see more Americans to vote than we have ever seen in our history.
And I am hoping that you will vote. Obviously, I hope you vote for me. But I also hope – I hope you will send Katie McGinty to the United States Senate.
…[Acknowledgements of public officials omitted]
…But mostly I’m here to say thanks – thanks for taking time out to think about what’s – what the stakes are –
I love you all, too! Absolutely!

So, for those who are still making up your minds or thinking maybe – maybe – it’s not worth voting at all, let me just say the choice in this election could not be clearer.
It really is between division or unity, between strong and steady leadership or a loose cannon, between an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top and economy that is set up and run for those at the top.
Now, I have spent my public career fighting for kids and families and standing up for our country.
And if you give me the privilege of your vote tomorrow, that is what I will do every single day of my presidency.
I will get up in the White House and I will think about what I can do that day to knock down barriers, to create opportunities so that you have the chance to fulfill your own dreams.
You see, I believe America’s best days are still ahead of us.
Now, doesn’t mean we don’t have to work for it because we do, that doesn’t mean that we can just expect it to happen as a birthright, but I really believe that.
I would not have worked for 18 months, traveled across our country, thought as hard as I have about what we need to do and how to do it together, proudly stand up and defend the legacy of President Obama, which has given our country progress in the right direction if I did not believe with all my heart that we could do this.
Right? We can do this.
We don’t have to accept a dark and divisive vision for America.
Tomorrow, you can vote for a hopeful, inclusive, big-hearted America.
And our core values are being tested in this election and I know that people are frustrated. A lot of people feel left out and left behind. There’s fear, even anger, in our country.
But I’ve got to say anger is not a plan, my friends.
If we’re going to harness our energy and try to overcome our problems, then we got to start talking to each other again and we have get good ideas wherever they come from.
Last night, I was in Manchester, New Hampshire, and I was with Khizr Khan, whose son Captain Khan was killed while serving in Iraq. You might remember him from the Democratic Convention.
He was not a man seeking to be on the stage of a political convention, but when he heard my opponent say what he said about Muslims and he looked at the flag that had been draped on his son’s coffin, he felt compelled to speak out.
He spoke powerfully about what America means to him and how we have to defend our values and our Constitution.
As he said last night, his son serving in the United States Army with his unit saw something suspicious, moved toward it to check it out, telling his men to stay behind, and when the car exploded, he lost his life. He was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
But as Mr. Khan said, when you listen to all of the people that my opponent has insulted and denigrated, would there a place in Donald Trump’s America for Captain Khan?
The Khan family gives me hope because they truly believe in the values of this great country of ours, and they have stood up holding the Constitution as he did at the convention to say people around the world cherish this Constitution, believe in our values. It’s a source of hope for billions of people.

We will never ever let that go, and we will never let someone rip it away in the kind of negative, divisive, hateful campaign we have seen on the other side in this election.
Sometimes when I hear my opponent speak, I don’t recognize the country he’s talking about.
That doesn’t mean we don’t have problems and challenges. It doesn’t mean that we don’t have to do more to help people across our country get better economic opportunities. Of course we do.
But boy, I believe we can do it. I love our country. I believe in the American people. I know what we are capable of.
Throughout our history, generations of Americans have risen together to meet the tests of their time. They defended democracy, built the greatest middle class the world has ever known, marched for civil rights and voting rights, for workers’ rights and women’s rights, LGBT rights, and rights for people with disabilities.
Tomorrow we face the test of our time. Will we be coming together as a nation or splitting further apart? Will we set goals that all of us can help meet? Or will we turn on each other and pit one group of Americans against another?
Now, our names will be on the ballot tomorrow but those values and every issue you care about will be there too.
What kind of country do we want?
And I particularly think about this for young people as I look at this crowd and see so many students and other young Americans who deserve the same opportunities in this country that many of us were given.
And we will make sure they are available. Because if you think about what it takes to have a thriving America, it comes down to a couple of key issues.
If you believe that America thrives when the middle class thrives, then you have to vote.
We’re going to make the biggest investments in good-paying jobs since World War II. Jobs in infrastructure, small business, clean energy, advanced manufacturing.
We’re going to actually deliver on that, unlike my opponent who makes his products mostly overseas, buys cheap Chinese steel and aluminum instead of what’s made by American steel workers right here in Pennsylvania.
We’re going to invest in America, and we’re especially going to invest in communities that are left out and left behind.
We’re going to stand up for the right of workers to organize and bargain.
We’re going to get incomes rising across America.
And if you believe that we need a fairer economy, as I do, then we’re going to raise the national minimum wage because nobody who works full-time should still be in poverty.
And we’re going to do more to support working families with affordable child care, paid family leave, and finally equal pay for women’s work.
I got to tell you, this always gets the biggest applause ever because fundamentally we know it’s not fair but it’s also about families. If you have a mother, a wife, a sister, or a daughter who’s working, you don’t want her short-changed, do you?
Now, when I talk about equal pay and all these other family issues, my opponent says I’m playing the woman’s card. Well, you know what I say – deal me in.
You know, if you believe all of our kids should have good schools and good teachers no matter what zip code they live in, then you have to vote.
If you believe that we can make college affordable for every young American, you’ve got to vote.

You know, I’ve got to say, I was very proud of the primary campaign that Bernie Sanders and I ran.
It was a campaign on issues and ideas, not insults.
And after it was over, he and I got together and we came up with this plan.
Public colleges and universities should be tuition free for everyone who makes less than $125,000 a year, and it should be debt free for everyone else.
I don’t think you should go into this massive debt to get your education. It’s good for you, it’s good for your families, it’s good for our country, and we’re going to make it affordable for everyone.
And for the millions of Americans already struggling with student debt, we’re going to ease that burden. We’re going to get those interest rates down. We’re going to give you a different way of repaying it as a percentage of your income, not tied to a 6%, 8%, 10% interest rate. And you’re never going to have to pay more than you can afford.
You see, I think there are a lot of positive things to get excited about. And I think the agenda we’ve put forth in this campaign is one that will really give everybody hope.
You see, working for children and families has been the cause of my life. But it has never been more important than it is right now. So this has to be our mission together doing all we can to help every American, especially every young American and especially every child, to have the chance to live up to your God-given potential.
Because when it’s all said and done, that’s what matters most. Have you helped somebody else? Have you reached out and tried to ease somebody’s burden?
We do it individually. My mother got through a neglected, abandoned childhood because people showed her kindness.
Her own parents didn’t want her. Her own grandparents didn’t want her.
But that first grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat brought extra food everyday to make sure my mother had something to eat.
And she was 14 and had to go out and find a job to support herself and got a job as a maid and a babysitter in somebody’s home, she was just relieved she had a place to live and she could support herself.
But the mother of that home understood my mom wanted to go to high school. So she said, “Dorothy, if you get up early and you get your chores done, you can go to high school. You’ll have to come right back because we’ll need you. But you can do it.”
Now, look, that sounds harsh to our ears telling a 14-year-old, okay, you can go to high school but you’ve got to come right back and you have to work on both sides of it. But to my mother, it was a blessing.
So when I think about what so many people have gone through to give opportunities that we have had – and I’m speaking for myself. My mother gave me the resilience, the grit, the get-up-and-go.
She told me, “Everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get back up.”
And we had a lot of Americans knocked down because of the Great Recession, didn’t we?
Millions of jobs were lost. Millions of homes were lost. Family wealth was wiped out. Savings accounts, 401Ks, everything that people had worked so hard for.
Well, we’ve dug ourselves out of the hole. Now, we’ve got to get up. And we’ve got to make sure we don’t leave anybody behind.
I see this man standing here with a sign – Coal Miners for Hillary – and I’ll tell you, sir, I know how hard times are.
And as I have said and you can take it to the bank, I will not forget you and I will do everything I can to help people who have given so much, worked so hard throughout their lives for generations to build this country. We are not going to forget any American.
But I can’t do any of this without your help tomorrow.
This election is going to really set the course of our country. There’s no doubt in my mind.
Tonight, I’ll be in Philadelphia with President Obama and Michelle, and I so appreciate how hard they have worked for me.

But it’s not for me. It’s for us.
You know, when President Obama came into office, put yourself in his shoes. This young, dynamic first African-American elected to become president of the United States.
And what does he find? He finds the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. That’s what he finds.
Wow, those were hard, hard times. I don’t think he gets the credit he deserves for making sure we didn’t go even deeper into the ditch we were in.
But make no mistake, there were reasons we ended up in that ditch. It didn’t happen by accident.
We had huge tax cuts on the wealthy. The administration in office took their eyes off the financial markets. And we know what happened.
They ignored the pressures in the mortgage markets, and we know what happened.
Elections have consequences for everything we care about.
And that’s why we’ve got to have each and every one of you put down your stake in our future.
If the lines are long tomorrow, please wait.
In early voting, we have had people waiting in line for 2 and 3 hours.
And there have been reporters and others going up and down the line asking people – all kinds of Americans, not one type – all types – “Why are you here?” “Because my future depends on it,” they say.
So tomorrow is the election, but that is just the beginning. We have to heal this country. We have to bring people together, listen and respect each other.
Now, I know it’s unusual for somebody running for president to say this. I started saying this months ago because I literally was meeting people who were scared by what they were hearing in the election.
You know, I’ve known a lot of the Republicans who’ve run for president, been elected president in recent history. I didn’t agree with them on everything, obviously. We had our differences. But I didn’t doubt that they were fit to serve as president.
This election’s different. This person is temperamentally unqualified, experientially unqualified to be president and commander-in-chief, and so many people know that.
So I think we do need some more love and kindness. Right?
We have got to rise above all of this hate-filled rhetoric, all of these insults and scapegoating, and finger-pointing and insulting.
I want to be the president for all Americans, not just some. I want to be the president for Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I want to be the president for those who vote for me and those who vote against me. I want to represent everybody.
Because I know we have a role to play in building a better future. So it starts tomorrow.
If you don’t know where to vote, go to IWillVote.com. You can get all the information you need.
The polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
We are on track, as I said, to have a huge turnout. But we can only do that if all of you make up your minds, you bring your friends, everybody you know to make sure your voices are heard.
This is a historic – historic – election, and we’re going to do everything we can not only to win but then immediately to get to work.
And I especially invite anyone who wants to volunteer for the next 24 hours – go to HillaryClinton.com, text JOIN to 47246, stop by one of our offices, we would love to see you.
Because when your kids and your grandkids ask you in the future what you did in 2016 when everything was on the line, you’ll be able to say you voted for a stronger, fairer, better America where we build bridges, not walls, and where we finally prove once and for all that love trumps hate.
Thank you!
###
