“Thank you!
“Wow, what a welcome. What a big night we had last night. And what a big morning we had this morning in Iowa. My goodness. What a squeaker. But it’s sure nice to have a win, I’ll tell ya.
“And the question that I have for you is can we do better here in New Hampshire?
“Do you think we can get more than a eight vote margin here in New Hampshire? I’m going to try. Do you think we can get there? I sure hope so.
“I’m proud to be here with Sen. John McCain. One of America’s heroes and a great friend. I appreciate the senator for being here with me. Thank you. Thank you, my friend.
“I’m going to say a few things and then turn to the Senator, who will offer some thoughts and then give you a chance to ask some questions of either of us or both of us.
“As you heard me say last night, I was appreciative of the process that began last night. We’re now on track to retire a guy who’s a nice guy but in over his head. It’s time for Barack Obama to go home and for someone who understands our economy to lead this country.
“You know, I happen to think that the gap between what President Obama – then candidate Obama – promised and what he has delivered is so extraordinary that the American people understanding that will finally do the right thing and say, ‘Thank you for your four years but we’ve got to have somebody who can get this country going on the right track.’
“And I look at the failures of this presidency, and it’s a long list.
“In foreign policy, his failure in Iran. His failure to put in place crippling sanctions. His failure to stand up for the people who went to the streets – the dissidents – and speak up for freedom and democracy. His failure to put in place credible military options. Those things are extraordinary risks to the future of our world and of course to our own nation.
“And then there was the economy. He went out and said he was going to borrow $787 billion from your generation to pay back, and he was going to do that to hold unemployment below 8%. It’s not been below 8% since. And so you have today 25 million people who are out of work or have stopped looking for work and under-employed. This is not just a statistic. These are real people having tough times making ends meet. Lot of folks get depressed after a long period of unemployment and some lose their faith, lose their marriages. This is a national tragedy.
“And then of course there was the failure in dealing with government itself. The federal government spends too much money – your money. Again, the next generation’s money. And every year, spending more than $1 trillion more than we take in and neither Sen. McCain nor I will be alive to pay that back. You guys have to pay it back. I think it’s immoral for us to spend more money every year than we take in, and it’s got to stop.
“Now, you know the president after being inaugurated went on the Today Show and he said, ‘If I can’t turn this economy around in three years, I’ll be looking at a one-term proposition.’ Well, I’m here to collect. We’re going to take back the White House.
“And just a couple of thoughts, guys, about how we’re going to fix the country and a couple of the dimensions I’ve mentioned.
“One, the deficit and the massive spending in Washington. How do we balance that spending?
“You know, I had the occasion as the governor of the state next door – and thank you for your border security provisions that allowed me to come into New Hampshire from Massachusetts. But I took our budget when I found we were – as Gov. [John] Sununu said – $3 billion short in my first administration in my first year. I looked at that and I said, ‘Let’s divide all the things that we have on our budget between those things that we have to do and those things that we just like doing.’ And then let’s cut or eliminate those things that we just like because we can’t afford them.
“In Washington, what I’ll do is look at our programs, and I will ask for each one, ‘Is this program so critical that it makes sense to borrow money from China to pay for it?’ And on that basis, we’re going to get rid of a lot of programs.
“And first on my list is Obamacare. It’s gone on day one if I become president.
“And I’ll go to work to make America a job-creating machine again. I know how that’s done. I know how we compete with other countries. I know why jobs come here and why they leave here. My intent will be to make America the most attractive place in the world for enterprise, for innovators, for entrepreneurs, for businesses big and large. I want them to come here.
“When the head of Coca-Cola, an American icon, says that the business environment is better in China than in the United States of America, you know something has gone badly awry.
“I will get America right again. I’ll get our tax rates competitive. I’ll make sure that regulators and regulations are up-to-date and encourage enterprise as oppose to crush it. I’ll make sure we open new markets for American goods and crack down on cheaters – like China.
“And I’ll also do something else and that is to take advantage of our energy resources, our oil, our gas. We can’t continue to rely on energy from others when we have energy like we do from Canada right next door. Let’s build that Keystone pipeline and get America energy secure again.
“And let me just end by saying this. This campaign is not just about dollars and cents at the federal level, balancing budgets – important as that is. It’s not just about jobs – important as that is. It’s also about the heart and soul of America.
“The question that America is going to face in this election is whether we’re going to remain a nation that our founders would recognize – a nation that was founded on the principles of opportunity and freedom? When they drafted the Declaration of Independence, they said that the Creator had endowed us with certain unalienable rights, among them – life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
“That last phrase – the pursuit of happiness – refers to the fact that in America we can pursue our dreams, our happiness, as we choose. We’re not limited by the circumstance of our birth. We’re instead limited only by our dreaming and our capacity and our willingness to work.
“That opportunity society – that merit society – where education, hard work, risk-taking, and dreaming, lift individuals and lift our entire nation. That has been a source of extraordinary prosperity for America – led us as a people to have a GDP per person or income per person about 50% higher than the average European.
“These principles – these American principles – are not temporary but permanent, enduring. I want to restore them to make sure that job-creating machine going again and restore to our kids the principle of hope and promise of that they’ve always loved.
“I see our president taking us in a different direction. I think he’s inspired by those European-style social welfare states and believes that the purpose of government is in part to take from some people to give to others. And the methodology to pursue that strategy is to promote envy as opposed to ambition and to poison the American spirit with class warfare.
“I want America to remain one nation, under God. I want to bring us together. I want to restore the principles that made in America – the hope of the earth. I don’t want to transform America into something that we wouldn’t recognize. I want to restore America.
“I love this country. I love its future. I’m not a pessimist. I’m an optimist. I’m an optimistic about America and about the potential that each of you young people have for a nation that’s strong and prosperous and free.
“But let me tell you this, there’s no model in the world, there are no principles in the word, more effective for creating jobs and peace and prosperity and hope and promise than the principles of the founding of the United States of America.
“I love this country. I love the principles upon which it was founded. I will restore them for our future, for the greatness of this great land.”

“Thank you!
“Boy, it’s great to be in Denver tonight. Lot of snow on the ground, pretty cold, but warm to be in this room with so many friends here. And I want to say thank you to you.
“The race is too close to call in Colorado at this point, but I’m pretty confident we’ll come in number one or number two. And I’m looking for a good showing, you guys. I know there’s still some people getting back from caucuses, but I want to say thanks to the efforts that you’ve made to get out to caucus and to support my effort.
“And I want to say thanks to people also in Missouri and Minnesota who’ve taken time to vote today.
“This was a good night for Rick Santorum. Want to congratulate Sen. Santorum, wish him the very best. We’ll keep on campaigning down the road, but I expect to become our nominee with your help.
“So I want to congratulate all of my fellow Republicans, particularly Sen. Santorum, and I look forward to the contest to come.
“But we’re going to take our message of liberty and prosperity to every corner of the country. And when this primary season is over, we’re going to stand united as a party behind our nominee to defeat Barack Obama and to restore the values that have made America the greatest nation in the history of the earth.
“Now three years ago, you may have remember, Barack Obama came to Colorado to accept his party’s nomination for the presidency. And he rented out a huge stadium. He got some of those styrofoam Greek columns – remember that? He had two giant TV screens to set the mood. And on that big stage here in Denver, he made some even bigger promises.
“He said that the Democrats had a different measure of what constitutes progress. And then he went on to define it. Under his definition, progress would be measured by how many people can find a job that pays a mortgage. That was his definition.
“Now what’s happened? More Americans have lost their jobs during President Obama’s term than during any other President in modern history and more Americans have lost their homes during President Obama’s term than during any other in modern history. Under his own definition, President Obama has failed. We will succeed.
“In that same speech, he went on defining progress. He went on and he said progress will be determined by ‘whether the average American family saw its income go up instead of down.’ And during the last four years, the median income in this country has fallen by about 10%. Again, by his own definition, President Obama has failed. We will succeed.
“Candidate Obama went on to say that we could measure progress by determining whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a business. Do you see what’s happened to small business in this country during President Obama’s term? There were almost 100,000 fewer new business start-ups this last year than there were during the year before when President Obama came to office. So by his own definition, President Obama has failed and we will succeed.
“One more promise. Candidate Obama said that we could see progress in an economy that honors the dignity of work. Now under President Obama, the average duration of unemployment has more than doubled and there is some 14 million more people on food stamps today than when he took office. Again, by President Obama’s own definition, he has failed and we will succeed.
“Now this week, you heard President Obama on TV say that he deserves a second term because, and I quote, ‘We’ve made progress.’
“No, Mr. President. Under the definition of progress you made right here four years ago in Denver, you have not made progress.
“Three years ago, President Obama, just after his inauguration, said that if he couldn’t turn this economy around in three years, he’d be looking at a one-term proposition. And we are here to collect. We’re going to take back the White House.
“This is a moment in time when our country is crying out for fundamental change and reform. Washington cannot reform itself, and Washington will never be reformed by those who’ve been compromised by the culture of Washington.
“This is a clear choice. I’m the only person in this race – Republican or Democrat – who has never served a day of time in Washington. In the world that I come from, leadership is about starting a business – not trying to get a bill out of committee.
“I’ve said over and over that this campaign is more about changing the soul of America or protecting the soul of America than it is about changing a President.
“We all know in our hearts that the soul of this nation can be corrupted by a Washington culture of reckless spending, voting to raise their own pay, saying that they support term limits and then running for re-election time afte time after time. It’s that Washington that we have to change, and when I’m President, we will.
“This is not a moment when we can continue to do business as usual. This is not a moment when we can expect those in Washington to realize suddenly that they’ve been wrong all the time and they’ll get it right the next time. This is a time for real change in Washington. Fundamental, bold, dramatic change.
“Now, I stand before you ready to lead this party and to lead the nation. I’ve led businesses; I’ve led Olympics; I had the chance of helping to lead a state.
“President Obama recently said he’s learning. We say he’s learning too little and too late. The presidency is not a place to learn how to lead; it’s a place to exercise the judgment and leadership that has been learned over a lifetime. And that’s precisely what I will do.
“I know that many of us are concerned about our future. Over the last 30 years, I can’t tell you how many times I’ve heard a situation is hopeless or heard a long list of reasons something can’t be done. But I’ve never been very good at listening to those people, and I’ve always enjoyed proving them wrong.
It’s one of the lessons I’ve learned from my dad. My father never graduated from college. He apprenticed as a lath and plaster carpenter, and he was pretty good at it. He actually could take a handful of nails, stick them in his mouth, and spit them out pointy end forward.
“On his honeymoon, he put aluminum paint in the trunk of his car and sold it along the way to pay for the gas and the hotels. There were a lot of reasons why my father could have given up and set his sights a lot lower. But my dad believed in America.
“And in the America he believed in, a lath and plaster guy could work out to become head of a car company and the guy who sold aluminum paint out of his car could end up being governor in one of the states he sold that very aluminum paint.
“For my dad and for hundreds of thousands and millions like him and like my mom as well, this was the land of opportunity, where the circumstance of birth was no barrier to be able to achieve one’s dreams.
“In dad’s America, small businesses, entrepreneurs – these were encouraged and respected. The spirit of enterprise and innovation and daring propelled our standard of living and our economy past that of every nation on the planet.
“I refuse to believe that America is just another place on the map with a flag. We stand for freedom and hope and opportunity.
“These last few years haven’t been the best of times. But while we’ve lost a few years, we’ve not lost our way. The principles that made this the greatest nation on earth and the leader of the world have not lost their meaning. They never will. We know we can bring this country back. I believe in America. So do you.
“In this election, let’s fight for the America we love because we believe in America and its founding principles.
“Thank you so much. I appreciate all you’ve done to help. We’ve got a long way to go, and I sure love this country. Thank you so much very much!”
Mitt Romney wins Michigan and Arizona primaries. SOURCE: MittRomney.com
“Wow! What a night! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
“Now first…first to call it…
“Okay, first thank you was the first state to call it – thank you, Arizona. Great victory in Arizona tonight.
“And thank you, Michigan. What a win. This is a big night. Thanks you guys.
“You know, it was just a week ago the pundits and the pollsters – they were ready to count us out.
“But across Michigan and Arizona, I kept on meeting moms and dads and students and grandparents, and they were concerned about what was happening to this great country of ours. And I was confident that we could come together today and take a giant step toward a brighter future. So tonight, their efforts have brought our cause a great victory and we celebrate with people across these states. Thank you.
“Now tonight is also particularly special for me because this is the place where I was born. This is the place where I was raised. My mom and dad lived many years here and love this great state, and I know that Michiganders in this room we consider you all family. Thank you so much for your help.
“And in this room are the people who knocked on the doors and made the calls and went to the polls, and it made an enormous difference. We didn’t win by a lot but we won by enough. And that’s all that counts.
“And by the way, in Arizona, special thank you to Gov. Jan Brewer there and Sen. John McCain. They were tireless, particularly John McCain. He’s been all over the country helping. What a hero. Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Governor. They’re out there.
“We’ve got two sons out there that are celebrating with them. Great thing about having so many in our family. We can cover almost every race. Super Tuesday will be stretch but we’re going to find a way.
“Our campaign, as you know, is about restoring the promise of America. Last week, I unveiled a very bold economic plan that’s going to jump start the economy and it’s going to get Michiganders back to work. It’s going to get Americans more jobs they’re crying out for. And we’re going to have less debt and smaller government. And I’m going to deliver on more jobs, less debt, and smaller government. We got to hear that day in and day out. More jobs. Less debt. Smaller government.
“You know, there are a lot of people who were saying that if you’re running for office you really can’t speak honestly to the American people. Well, we did and I will. And because this is a decisive moment, I believe this is a time that requires real leadership in our country. Our times are tough. We need leaders who will live with integrity, who have the courage to tell the truth, and have the experience to get our economy back on track. That’s the kind of leader I aspire to be. That’s the kind of leader I will be if I’m President of the United States.
“Our campaign is about more than just replacing a President. It’s about restoring America’s promise. From generation to generation, Americans have always known that the future would be brighter and better. Americans have always believed in a tomorrow full of possibility and prosperity. That’s what it means to be in the land of opportunity.
“In America, you know that if you work hard, you can build a better life. If you teach your kids the right kind of values and help them make the right choices in life, you know their future would be prosperous and secure. And that deep confidence of a better tomorrow is a basic promise of America.
“Today that promise is being threatened by a faltering economy and a failed presidency. Four years ago, we warned that the presidency was no place for on-the-job training. Well, today we have the economy to prove it, all right?
“This President, by the way, he likes to remind us that he inherited an economy that was in crisis. But he doesn’t like to remind us that he also inherited a Democrat Congress. He had majorities in both the House and the Senate. He was free to pursue any policy he pleased.
“Did he fix the economy? No.
“Did he tackle the housing crisis? No.
“Did he get America back to work? No.
“Instead, he put us on a path toward debt and deficits and decline.
“It’s time to get off that path and get back on the path of American prosperity.
“Now, these days when he’s not spending our money or infringing on our rights, he’s busy running for re-election. He believes that the – did you hear this? He believes that he ranks among the top four Presidents in American history. Do you believe that? I’d find a different spot for him.
“He thinks he deserves a second term. He says, ‘We can’t wait.’ To which I say, ‘Oh, yes we can.’
“Today, we’re $15 trillion in debt and real unemployment stands at 15%. You’ve heard that old saying about ‘I need a vacation from my vacation’? Well, we need to have a recovery from this so-called recovery.
“You know, as a nation, we’ve survived a Great Depression. We’ve weathered two World Wars. We’ve made it through tough times. And we’ve not come all this way to give up now. We still believe in the hope, in the dream, and the promise of America. We know our future is better and brighter than these troubled times. That unwavering conviction guides our campaign in this effort. It’s rallied millions of people to our cause. And it’s the message we’re going to take to every corner of the country, from Ohio to Idaho and Georgia to Tennessee.
“We’ve seen enough of this President over the last three years to know that we don’t need another five years of President Obama because he thinks he’s unchecked by the Constitution. He’s unresponsive to the will of our people. And in a second term, he would be unrestrained by the demands of re-election. If there’s one thing we can’t afford, it’s four years of Barack Obama with nothing to answer to. So we’re going to get him out of that office and get him back home where he belongs.
“Now, you saw his budget. You saw the budget. He put it out. It foreshadowed exactly what we’re going to see ahead if he’s the President. Runaway spending, record debt – they were just the warm-up act. You know, for an encore, he wants to raise taxes on job creators and small businesses and families. And we are not going to let him do it.
“In this campaign, I’m offering a real choice and a very different direction. I have a plan that will restore America’s promise through more jobs and less debt and smaller government. President Obama is making the federal government bigger, more burdensome, and bloated. I’ll make it simpler, smaller, and smarter, and it’s about time for that to happen.
“He raised the national debt. I will cut, cap, and balance the budget.
“He passed Obamacare. I will repeal Obamacare.
“He lost our AAA credit rating. I’ll restore our AAA credit rating.
“He rejected the Keystone pipeline. I’ll get us that oil from Canada that we deserve.
“And by the way, I’m going to open up our lands for development so we can finally get the energy in this country that we need at the price we can afford.
“Look, when it comes to the economy, my highest priority will be worrying about your job – not worrying about how to save my own.
“This President wants to raise your taxes. I’m going to cut them. That’s going to start with an across-the-board 20% rate cut for every American. I’ll also repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax. And we will abolish finally the Death Tax.
“And you know, he has now proposed raising taxes on small businesses and job creators. I’m going to lower those taxes. I’ll also lower the corporate rate to larger businesses to 25%. I’ll make the R&D tax credit permanent to foster innovation. And I’m going to end the repatriation tax to return investments back to our shores. There’s a lot of money offshore that ought to come back to America.
“Let’s finally have a tax plan that puts Americans back to work, and I have it and we’ll get it in place.
“Now, you know he also proposes to raise taxes on savings and investments. And if I’m the President, I’m going to help middle-class families save and invest tax free. Good. I’m glad you agree. It’s about time.
“And he also has an extraordinary gap in his policy proposals. Do you realize after saying that Medicare and Social Security were in trouble he has yet to offer a single serious proposal for saving Medicare and Social Security? I have a plan to save them both. And unlike him, I have the courage to put my plan on the table for people to see.
“Look, what this campaign is about – what my plans are about – are creating jobs and raising wages for the American people. They’re going to strengthen our entitlement programs for the next generation, and they will not add to our deficit. We will finally balance America’s budget.
“Now, beyond having a plan to get our citizens back to work, I have the experience to get our economy back on track. I spent 25 years in business. I was also the steward of the Olympics and the leader of a state. I cut taxes 19 times. I’ve turned a budget shortfall into a surplus. I know how government can kill jobs and, yes, I know how it can create jobs. And I stand ready to lead our party to victory and our nation back to prosperity. We’ll get the job done.
“It’s a critical time in America. It’s our time for choosing. And this time, we got to get the choice right. I said it before and I firmly believe it that this campaign is about saving the soul of America.
“This election comes down to two very different visions of America. It’s a choice between becoming a nation of and by Washington or remaining a nation of and by a free people; a choice between an entitlement society and a land of opportunity; a choice between squandering America’s promise and restoring that promise for future generations.
“If you want to make this election about restoring American greatness, then I hope you’ll join us.
“If you believe that the disappointments of the last few years are a detour not the destiny for America, then I need your support.
“I’m asking for you to get out and vote. And I’m asking for you, by the way, to go on MittRomney.com and pledge your support in every way possible. I’m asking you to join the fight for our freedom to ensure that tomorrow will be better than today.
“This election, let’s restore America’s promise. Let’s fight for this country we love. We’ve got work ahead. We’re going to do that work. We’re going to take back America.
“America is the greatest nation in the history of the earth and we’re going to keep it that way. Thanks, you guys! You’re the best. God bless the United States of America. Thank you.”
“I have the same view on marriage that I have when I was Governor and that I’ve expressed many times. I believe marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman.
“States are able to make decisions with regards to domestic partnership benefits, such as hospital visitation rights, benefits and so forth of various kinds could be determined state-by-state. But my view is that marriage itself is a relationship between a man and a woman, and that’s my own preference. I know other people have different views. This is a very tender and sensitive topic as are many social issues, but I have the same view that I’ve had since, well, since running for office.
“I believe that based upon the interview that he [President Obama] gave today on ABC, it said that he had changed his view. But you’re a better judge of that than I. I just saw the reports that he had previously said he opposed same-sex marriage and now according to ABC News he’s saying that he supports it. So if that’s the case then you’ll be able to make that determination on your own.”
“I believe the status on young people who come here through no fault of their own is an important matter to be considered and should be solved on a long-term basis so they know what their future would be in this country.
“I think the action that the President took today makes it more difficult to reach that long-term solution because an executive order is, of course, just a short-term matter and can be reversed by subsequent Presidents.
“I’d like to see legislation that deals with this issue. And I happen to agree with Marco Rubio as he looked this issue. He said that this is an important matter, that we have to look at a long-term solution but that the President’s action makes reaching a long-term solution more difficult.
“If I’m President, we’ll do our very best to have that kind of long-term solution that provides certainty and clarity for the people who come into this country through no fault of their own by virtue of the actions of their parents.
“Thank you.”
Mitt Romney addressing the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials on June 21, 2012. SOURCE: naleo.org
“It’s an honor to be amongst so many dedicated elected officials. I come to you as a candidate for the President of the United States of America, and I will govern from the principle that while this is a land of extraordinary diversity there is much more that unites us than there is that divides us.
“Each of us walks a different path in life but we are united by one great overwhelming passion: We love the United States of America. We believe in America. We are one nation under God.
“Today we’re united not only by our faith in America, we’re also united by our concern for America.
“The country we love is at peril, and that’s why I’m running for President.
“Almost four years ago, the American people did something that was very much the sort of thing Americans like to do: We gave someone new a chance to lead, someone who we hadn’t known very long, who didn’t have much of a record but promised to lead us to a better place.
“At the time, we didn’t know what kind of President he’d be. It was a moment of crisis for our economy. And when Barack Obama came to office, America wished him well and hoped for the best.
“Three-and-a-half years later, over 23 million Americans are out of work, unemployed, under-employed, or simply quit looking for a job.
“At a time when we should be gaining momentum in the economy, we’re actually seeing us lose a bit of it right now. Job growth slowed, and this week we learned the number of job openings has fallen yet again. And as you know, Hispanics have been hit disproportionately hard.
“While the national unemployment is still above 8% and has been for 40 straight months, Hispanic unemployment is at 11%.
“The middle-class under President Obama has been crushed. More Americans are living in poverty today than any point in American history. Over two million more Hispanics are living in poverty today than the day when President Obama took office.
“Home values have plunged. Our national debt is at record levels. And families are buried under higher prices for things like food and gasoline. And yet the President said the private sector is doing fine. This is more than a policy failure. It’s a moral failure.
“Now, I know the President will say that he inherited the economic crisis, and that’s true. But we shouldn’t allow the challenges he faced four years ago to divert our attention from another important fact.
“The President pursued policies that have made this the slowest recovery since the Great Depression, and he broke promises many people were counting on to build a brighter future. It did not have to be this way.
“Just compare this President’s record with the first term of Ronald Reagan. President Reagan also faced an economic crisis. In fact, in 1982 the unemployment rate peaked at nearly 11%. But in the two years that followed – just two years – he delivered a true recovery: Economic growth and job creation worth three times higher than the Obama economy.
“If President Obama had delivered a real recovery – a Reagan recovery – we would have five million more jobs today. Five million more! The unemployment rate would be about 6%, and our economy would be at least $1 trillion larger.
“Now tomorrow, President Obama will speak here. Of course, that’s the first time he’s spoken here since his last campaign. He may admit that he hasn’t kept every promise. And he’ll probably say that even though you aren’t better off today than you were four years ago, things could be worse. He’ll imply that you don’t really have an alternative. I believe he’s taking your vote for granted.
“I’ve come here today with a very simple message. You do have an alternative. Your vote should be respected, and your voice is more important now than ever before.
“This November, we’re going to make a choice. We could continue along the path we’re on or we could choose a better way.
“Instead of continuing with the policies of the last three-and-a-half years, we could revitalize our free enterprise economy. We can lead the world, as we have in what we invent and build and create.
“And let me make this very clear, this is the only way we can strengthen the middle-class. And this is the only way we can create sustained prosperity.
“Raising taxes to grow government does not grow the middle-class.
“Today, I’m asking you to join me because while we might not agree on everything, we share this same goal, the same vision, and the same belief in American greatness that draws so many people to our shores.
“Liberty’s torch can burn just as brightly for future generations of immigrants as it has burned for immigrants of the past.
“Now, we know our businesses can’t succeed, grow and hire more workers without a more competitive tax system. That’s why I’m going to lower our corporate tax rate and reduce individual marginal tax rates by 20% across-the-board.
“We also know that our businesses and families need affordable and reliable energy. Producing more of our own energy resources, we’ll create jobs in America and generate greater revenues for the county.
“We’ll also help bring manufacturing back to our shores. You’re going to see a manufacturing resurgence if we get that policy right.
“We know our economy can’t grow if we’re mortgaging our future to pay for the big government programs of today. Think about that. We can’t keep on borrowing massively more than we take in without putting the country in peril.
“So, as President, I’ll reign in spending and I will get the budget balanced.
“And I will repeal Obama care. We can’t afford another $2 trillion entitlement. $2 trillion entitlement!
“Everybody likes free stuff but there is no free stuff. When government has to pay, it has to tax the American people or when it borrows from future generations.
“And Obamacare is depressing job growth. If priority number one is jobs, you gotta get Obamacare out of there.
“In one study, 73% of business owners said Obamacare has made it harder for them to hire people. Think of that. Almost three-quarter of small businesses saying that Obamacare is making it less likely to hire people.
“If jobs are your priority, you gotta get rid of Obamacare and put in place real reform that works. Repealing Obamacare, replacing it will give businesses the kind of certainty to expand and to hire and to grow.
“Now, by the way, we could also jump-start our economy by expanding trade in our hemisphere. As you know, however, the President hasn’t completed a single new trade agreement with a Latin American nation. And he’s failed to crack down on countries like China that don’t live by the rules.
“We know our kids can’t succeed if they’re trapped in failing schools, and that’s why as President I will give the parents of every low-income and special needs student the chance to choose where their child goes to school.
“When it comes to education, a choice for parents means a chance for every child. And an effective integration system can also strengthen the economy as it has since the nation’s founding.
“Unfortunately, despite his promises, President Obama has failed to address immigration reform.
“For two years, this President had huge majorities in the House and Senate. He was free to pursue any policy he pleased. But he did nothing to advance a permanent fix for our broken immigration system. Nothing.
“Instead he failed to act until facing a tough re-election and trying to secure your vote.
“Last week, the President finally offered a temporary measure. He called it a ‘stop-gap’ measure that he seems to think will be just enough to get him through the election.
“After three-and-a-half years of putting every issue from loan guarantees to his donors to cash-for-clunkers – putting all those things before immigration – now the President has been seized by an overwhelming need to do what he could have done on day one but didn’t. I think you deserve better.
“Some people have asked if I will let stand the President’s executive order. The answer is I will put in place my own long-term solution that will replace and supersede the President’s temporary measure.
“As President, I won’t settle for stop-gap measures. I’ll work with Republicans and Democrats to build a long-term solution.
“And I’ll prioritize measures – I want you all to also know this. I will prioritize efforts that strengthen legal immigration and make it more transparent and easier.
“And I’m going to address the problem of illegal immigration in a civil and resolute manner. We may not always agree but when I make a promise to you, I will keep it.
“Let me speak about some of the guidelines that I will use in putting together that policy.
“And as you heard me say many times, it’s critical that we re-double our efforts to secure the borders – that means both preventing illegal border crossings and making it harder to illegally overstay a visa.
“We should field enough border patrol agents, complete a high-tech fence, and implement and improve exit verification system.
“Our immigration system should help promote strong families as well – not keep them apart. Our nation benefits when moms and dads and their kids are all living together under the same roof.
“But today, too many families are caught in a broken system that cost them time and money and entangles them in excessive red tape.
“For those seeking to come to America the right way, that kind of bureaucratic nightmare has to end. And we could do this with just a few common sense reforms.
“As President, I’m reallocating green cards to those seeking to keep their families under one roof.
“And we’ll exempt from caps the spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents.
“And we’ll eliminate other forms of bureaucratic red tape that keep families from coming together.
“Immigration reform is not just a moral imperative. It’s also an economic necessity.
“Immigrants with advanced degrees start companies, create jobs, and they drive innovation at a very high rate.
“Immigrants founded or co-founded nearly half of our top 50 venture-backed companies in this country. Nearly half.
“They are nearly 30% more likely to start a business, and that kind of risk-taking is something we need more than ever because new business start-ups in America are at a 30-year low.
“I’ll work with states and employers to update our temporary worker visa program so that it meets our economic needs.
“And if you get an advanced degree here, we want you to stay here. So I’d staple a green card to the diploma of someone who gets an advanced degree in America.
“We want the best and brightest to enrich the nation with the jobs and technologies they’re going to create.
“Now, we also have a strong tradition in this country of honoring immigrants who join our military, put their lives on the line to keep the country safe.
“Since Sept. 11, 2001, the United States has naturalized almost 75,000 members of the armed forces. Too many of those patriots died on distant battlefields for our freedom before receiving full citizenship here in the country they called home.
“As President, I will stand for a path to legal status for anyone who is willing to stand up and defend this great nation through military service. Those who’ve risked their lives in defense of America have earned their right to make their life in America.
“But improving access to legal immigration is only one part of the equation. We must also make legal immigration more attractive than illegal immigration so that people are rewarded for waiting patiently in line.
“That’s why my administration will establish a strong employment verification system so that every business can know with confidence that the people it hires are legally eligible for employment. We can find common ground here, and we’ve got to. We owe it to ourselves as Americans to ensure that our country remains the land of opportunity both for those who are born here and for those who share our values, respect our laws, and want to come to our shores.
“Now, throughout my campaign, I’ve often had the chance to speak about my dad, and how proud I am of him. He was born…to parents – American parents – living in Mexico. When he was five, they left everything behind and started over in the United States. His dad, my grandfather, was a builder and he went bust more than once. My grandfather didn’t make much money. There were times in my dad’s life when he lived in poverty. But my grandfather had big hopes for my dad and tried to help him as best as he could.
“My dad didn’t finish college but he believed in a country where the circumstances of one’s birth were not a barrier to achievement. And he wasn’t afraid of hard work. He held a lot of jobs – putting up plaster boards, selling paint. He was lucky enough to live in America, where hard work can turn aspirations into realities.
“After he became a man in the business world, he got the opportunity to lead a great car company. And ultimately, he became the Governor of a great state – the state of Michigan.
“This is my father’s story. But it could be the story of any American.
“Most of you here today are leaders in your community. You’re here because you’ve benefitted from the land of opportunity and you want to give back to this country and fight for its people so they have the same chance to succeed.
“We are truly one America. Everyone here has made this exceptional nation what it is today.
“This isn’t an election about two people. This is not an election about being a Republican or a Democrat or an independent. This is an election about the future of America.
“I’d ask each of you to honestly look at the last three-and-a-half years and ask whether we can do better. Is the America of 11% Hispanic unemployment the America of our dreams? We can do better.
“We can prosper again with a powerful recovery we’ve all been waiting for. The good jobs that so many people need and above all, the opportunities we owe to our children and our grandchildren. I will do that. I will make that happen with your help and your support.
“Thank you so much. And God bless this great land.
“Thank you.”
Republican presidential contender Mitt Romney responding to the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act on June 28, 2012. SOURCE: MittRomney.com
“As you might imagine, I disagree with the Supreme Court’s decision and I agree with the dissent.
“What the court did not do on its last day in session I will do on my first day if elected President of the United States and that is I will act to repeal Obamacare.
“Let’s make clear that we understand what the court did and did not do.
“What the court did today was say that Obamacare does not violate the Constitution.
“What they did not do was say that Obamacare is good law or that it’s good policy.
“Obamacare was bad policy yesterday; it’s bad policy today.
“Obamacare was bad law yesterday; it’s bad law today.
“Let me tell you why I say that: Obamacare raises taxes on the American people by approximately $500 billion.
“Obamacare cuts Medicare – cuts Medicare – by approximately $500 billion.
“And even with those cuts and tax increases, Obamacare adds trillions to our deficits and to our national debt and pushes those obligations on to coming generations.
“Obamacare also means that for up to 20 million Americans they will lose the insurance they currently have – the insurance that they like and they want to keep.
“Obamacare is a job killer. Businesses across the country have been asked what the impact is of Obamacare, three-quarter of those surveyed by the Chamber of Commerce said Obamacare makes it less likely for them to hire people.
“And perhaps most troubling of all, Obamacare puts the federal government between you and your doctor.
“For all those reasons, it’s important for us to repeal and replace Obamacare.
“What are some of the things that we’ll keep in place and must be in place in a reform – a real reform of our health care system?
“One, we have to make sure that people who want to keep their current insurance will be able to do so.
“Having 20 million people – up that number of people – lose the insurance they want is simply unacceptable.
“Number two, gotta make sure those people who have pre-existing conditions know that they will be able to be insured and they will not lose their insurance.
“We also have to assure that we do our very best to help each states in their efforts to assure that every American has access to affordable health care.
“And something that Obamacare does not do that must be done in real reform is helping lower the cost of health care and health insurance. It’s becoming prohibitively expensive.
“And so this is now a time for the American people to make a choice.
“You can choose whether you want to have a larger and larger government, more and more intrusive in your life, separating you and your doctor, whether you’re comfortable with more deficits, higher debts that we pass on to the coming generations, whether you’re willing to have the government put in place a plan that potentially causes you to lose the insurance that you like.
“Or whether instead you want to return to a time when the American people will have their own choice in health care, where consumers will be able to make their choices as to what kind of health insurance they want.
“This is a time of choice for the American people.
“Our mission is clear. If we want to get rid of Obamacare, we’re going to have to replace President Obama.
“My mission is to make sure we do exactly that. That we return to the American people the privilege they’ve always had – live their lives in the way they feel most appropriate. Where we don’t pass on to coming generations massive deficits and debt. Where we don’t have a setting where jobs are lost.
“If we want good jobs and a bright economic future for ourselves and for our kids, we must replace Obamacare.
“That is my mission. That is our work. And I’m asking the people of America to join me. If you don’t want the course that President Obama has put us on, if you want instead a course that our founders envisioned, then join me in this effort.
“Help us. Help us defeat Obamacare. Help us defeat the liberal agenda that makes government too big, too intrusive, and that’s killing jobs across this great country.
“Thank you so much.”
Mitt Romney reacts to boos from the audience at the 2012 NAACP Convention. SOURCE: C-Span.org
“This is an honor to address you and one I had not expected and one I value very highly.
“I appreciate the chance to speak first, even before Vice President Biden will get his turn tomorrow. I just hope the Obama campaign doesn’t think you’re playing favorites.
“Now, you all know something about my background and maybe you’ve wondered how any Republican can ever become Governor of Massachusetts in the first place. Well, when you’re in a state with 11% Republican registration, you don’t get there by just talking to Republicans; you have to make your case to every single voter. We don’t count anybody out, and we sure don’t make a habit of presuming anyone’s support. The support is asked for and earned, and that’s why I’m here today.
“Now with 90% of African Americans who typically vote for Democrats, you may wonder – or some may wonder – why a Republican would bother to campaign in the African American community and to address the NAACP. One reason of course is that I hope to represent all Americans of every race, creed, and sexual orientation.
“From the poorest to the riches and everyone in between.
“But there’s another reason: I believe that if you understood who I truly am in my heart and if it were possible to fully communicate what I believe is in the real enduring best interests of the African American families, you would vote for me for President.
“Now I want you to know that if I did not believe that my policies and my leadership would help families of color and families of any color more than the policies and leadership of President Obama, I wouldn’t be running for President.
“Now of course you know the opposition charges that I and people in my party are running for office to help the rich. Nonsense. The rich will do just fine whether I’m elected or not.
“The President wants to make this campaign about blaming the rich and I want to make this campaign about helping the middle-class in America.
“I’m running for President because I know that my policies and visions will help millions of the middle-class Americans of all races, will lift people from poverty, and will help prevent people from becoming poor in the first place.
“My campaign is about helping the people who need help.
“Of course, the President has said it won’t do that. My course will.
“Now, when President Obama called to congratulate me on becoming the presumptive Republican nominee – a gracious call – he said that, ‘He looked forward to an important and healthy debate about America’s future.’ Today, I’m afraid that his campaign has taken a different course than that.
“But in campaigns at their best, voters can expect a clear choice and candidates can expect a fair hearing – if only more so from a venerable organization like this one.
“So it’s a healthy debate about the course of the nation that I want to discuss with you today.
“Now, if someone had told us in the 1950s and the 1960s that a black citizen would serve as the 44th President of the United States, we would have been proud and many would have been surprised.
“Picturing that day, we might have assumed that the American presidency would be the very last door of opportunity to be opened. Before that came to pass, every other barrier on the path of equal opportunity would surely have had to come down.
“Of course, it hasn’t happened quite that way. Many barriers remain. Old inequities persist. In some ways, the challenges are even more complicated than before.
“And across America – and even within your own ranks – there’s serious, honest debates about the way forward.
“If equal opportunity in America were an accomplished fact, then a chronically bad economy would be equally bad for everyone.
“Instead, it’s worse for African Americans in almost every way. The unemployment rate, the duration of unemployment, average income, median family wealth are all worse in the black community.
“In June, while the overall unemployment rate remains stuck at 8.2%, the unemployment rate for African Americans actually went up from 13.6% to 14.4%.
“Americans of every background are asking when this economy will finally recover, and you in particular are entitled to an answer.
“If equal opportunity in America were an accomplished fact, black families could send their sons and daughters to public schools that truly offer the hope of a better life. Instead, for generations the African American community has been waiting and waiting for that promise to be kept.
“Today, black children are 17% of students nationwide but they are 42% of the students in our worst performing schools. Our society sends them to mediocre schools and expects them to perform with excellence, and that’s simply not fair.
“Frederick Douglass observed, and I quote, ‘It’s easier to build strong children than to repair broken men.’
“And yet instead of preparing these children for life, too many schools set them up for failure. Everyone in this room knows that we owe them better than that.
“The path to inequality often leads to lost opportunity. College, graduate schools, and first jobs should be the milestones marking the passage from childhood to adulthood. But for too many disadvantaged young people, these goals seem unattainable and their lives take a tragic turn. Many of them in neighborhoods filled with violence and fears and empty of opportunity.
“Their impatience for change is understandable. They’re entitled to feel that life in America should be better than this. They’re told even now to wait for improvements in our economy and in our schools. But it seems to me that these Americans have waited long enough.
“The point is that when decades of the same promises keep producing the same failures, then it’s reasonable to re-think our approach and consider a new plan.
“I’m hopeful that together we could set a new direction in federal policy, starting where many of our problems do start – with the family.
“A study by the Brookings Institution has shown that for those who graduated from high school, who get a full-time job, and wait until 21 before they marry and then have their first child, the probability of becoming poor is 2%. And if those factors are absent, the probability of being poor is 76%.
“Here at the NAACP, you understand that deep and lasting difference that family makes. Your former executive director, Dr. Benjamin Hooks, had it exactly right. ‘The family,’ he said, ‘remains the bulwark and the mainstay of the black community. That great truth must not be overlooked.’
“Any policy that lives up and honors the family is going to be good for the country, and that must be our goal.
“As President, I will promote strong families and I will defend traditional marriage.
“Now as you may have heard from my opponent, I’m also a believer of the free enterprise system. I believe that it can bring change where so many well-meaning government programs have failed.
“I’ve never heard anyone look around an impoverished neighborhood and say, ‘You know, there’s just too much free enterprise around here. Too many shops, too many jobs, too many people putting money in the bank.’
“What you hear, of course, is how do we bring in jobs? How do we make good, honest employers want to move in, stay in?
“And with the state of the economy it’s in today, we’re asking that question more and more.
“Free enterprise – free enterprise – is still the greatest force for upward mobility, economic security, and the expansion of the middle-class.
“We’ve seen in recent years what it’s like to have less free enterprise.
“As President, I’ll show the good things that can happen when we have more free enterprise, more business activities, more jobs, more opportunities, more paychecks, more savings accounts.
“On day one, I’ll begin turning this economy around with a plan for the middle-class, and I don’t just mean for those who are middle-class now. I also mean for those who’ve waited so long for their chance to join the middle-class.
“And by the way, I know what it takes to put people to work, to bring more jobs and better wages. My plan is based on 25 years of success in business. It’s a job recovery plan. Now, it has 5 key steps.
“First, I’m going to take full advantage of our energy resources, and I’ll approve the Keystone pipeline from Canada. Low-cost, plentiful coal, natural gas, oil, and renewables will bring over a million manufacturing jobs back to the United States.
“Second, I want to open up new markets for American goods. We’re the most productive major economy in the world. So trade means good jobs for Americans. But trade has to be fair and free. So I’ll clamp down on cheaters like China and make sure they finally play by the rules and don’t steal our jobs.
“And third, I’m going to reduce government spending. I hope everyone understands that high levels of debt slow down the rate of growth of the GPD, of the economy, and that means fewer jobs are created. If our goal is jobs, we have to stop spending over $1 trillion more than we take in every year.
“And so to do that, I’m going to eliminate every non-essential expensive program that I can find. That includes Obamacare and I’m going to work to reform and save…
“You know, there was a survey of the Chamber of Commerce. They carried out a survey of their members about 1,500 surveyed. And they asked them what effect that Obamacare would have on their plans, and three quarters of them said it made them less likely to hire people.
“So I say again if our priority is jobs – and that’s my priority – that’s something I’d change and replace with something that provides people something they need in health care, which is lower cost, good quality, a capacity to deal with people who have pre-existing conditions. And I’ll put that in place.
“And I’ll also work to reform and save Medicare and Social Security. People kept talking about the fact that those programs are on the pathway to insolvency and yet nothing gets done to fix it. I will fix them and make sure they’re permanent and secure for our seniors today and for our seniors tomorrow. And I’ll do that in part by means-testing the benefits, meaning higher benefits for lower-income people and lower benefits for higher-income folks.
“Fourth, I’m going to focus on nurturing and developing the skilled workers that our economy so desperately needs today and the future demands. This is the human capital with which tomorrow’s bright future can be built.
“And by the way, too many homes and too many schools are failing to provide our children with the skills and education that are essential for anything other than a minimum wage job.
“And finally, and perhaps most importantly, I’ll restore economic freedom. This nation’s economy runs on freedom and opportunity and entrepreneurs, on dreamers who innovate and build businesses. These entrepreneurs are being crushed by high taxation, unnecessary burdensome regulations, hostile regulators, excessive health care costs, and destructive labor policies.
“I will go to work to make America the best place in the world for innovators, for entrepreneurs, and for businesses large and small. Do these 5 things – open up energy, expand trade, cut the growth of government, focus on better educating tomorrow’s workers today, and restore economic freedom, and jobs will come back to America and wages will rise again. We have got to do it.
“And I know the President will say he’s going to do those things but he has not, he will not, he cannot.
“And his last 4 years in the White House prove it definitively.
“If I’m President, job one for me will be creating jobs. Let me say that again. My agenda is not to put in place a series of policies that get me a lot of attention and applause. My policy will be number one create jobs for the American people. I do not have a hidden agenda…
“And I submit to you this. If you want a President who will make things better in the African American community, you are looking at him.
“You take a look.
“Finally, I will address the institutionalized inequality in our education system, and I know something about this from my time as Governor.
“In the years before I took office, our state’s leaders had come together to pass bipartisan measures that were making a difference. In reading and in math, our students were already among the best in the nation. And during my term, they took over the top spot.
“Those results reveal what good teachers can do if the system will let them. The problem was this success wasn’t shared. A significant achievement gap between students of different races remained.
“So we set out our best to close it. I urged faster interventions in failing schools and the funding to go along with it. I promoted math and science excellence in schools and proposed paying bonuses for the best teachers. I refused to weaken testing standards and instead raise them.
“To graduate from high school in Massachusetts, students now had to pass an exam in math and English, and I added a science requirement as well. And I put in place a merit scholarship for all those students who excelled. The top 25% of students in each high school in Massachusetts were awarded a John and Abigail Adams scholarship – 4 years tuition-free at any Massachusetts public institution of higher learning.
“And when I was Governor, not only did our test scores improve, we also narrowed the achievement gap.
“Now, the teachers’ unions weren’t happy with a number of these reforms. They especially did not like our emphasis on choice through charter schools, which is a great benefit to inner city kids trapped in under-performing schools.
“Accordingly, the legislature passed a moratorium on any new charter schools. As you know, in Boston and in Harlem and in Los Angeles and all across the country, charter schools are giving children a chance – children that could otherwise be locked in failing schools.
“I was inspired just a few weeks ago by the students in one of Kenny Gamble’s charter schools in Philadelphia. Right here in Houston is another remarkable success story – the Knowledge is Power Program, which has set the standard thanks to the groundbreaking work of the late Harriett Ball.
“These charter schools are doing a lot more than closing the achievement gap. They’re bringing hope and real opportunity to places where for years there’s been none.
“Charter schools are so successful that almost every politician can find something good to say about them. But as we saw in Massachusetts, true reform requires much more than talk. As Governor, I vetoed the bill blocking charter schools. But my legislature was 87% Democrat and my veto could have easily been overwritten. So I joined with the black legislative caucus and their votes helped preserve my veto, which meant that new charter schools – including some in urban neighborhoods – would be opened.
“When it comes to education reform, candidates can’t have it both ways – talking up education reform while indulging the same groups that are blocking reform. You can be the voice of disadvantaged public school students or you can be the protector of special interests like the teachers’ unions. But you can’t be both.
“I’ve made my choice. As President, I will be a champion of real education reform in America and I won’t let any special interests get in the way.
“I will give the parents of every low-income and special needs students the chance to choose where their child goes to school.
“For the first time in history, if I’m President, federal education funds will be linked to a student so that parents can send their child to any public or charter school they choose. And I’ll make that a true choice…
“Because I’m going to ensure that there are good options available for every child.
“And should I be elected President, I’ll lead as I did when I was Governor. I’m pleased today to be joined by the Reverend Jeffrey Brown, who was a member of my ‘kitchen cabinet’ in Massachusetts. That cabinet helped guide my policies and actions that affected the African American community in particular.
“I’ll look for support wherever there’s good will and shared conviction. And I’ll work with you to help our children attend better schools and help our economy create good jobs with better wages.
“I can’t promise you that I’ll agree on every issue but I do promise that your hospitality to me today will be returned. We will know one another.
“And we will work to common purpose. I will seek you counsel.
“And if I’m elected President and you invite me to next year’s convention, I will count it as a privilege and my answer will be yes.
“You know, the Republican Party’s record by the measures you rightly apply is not perfect. Any party that claims a perfect record doesn’t know history the way you know it.
“Yet always in both parties there have been men and women of integrity, decency, and humility who’ve called in justice by its name. For every one of us, a particular person comes to mind – someone who’s set a standard of conduct and made us better by their example. For me, that man is my father, George Romney.
“It wasn’t just that my dad helped write the civil rights provisions for the Michigan Constitution. Though he did. It wasn’t just that he helped create Michigan’s first civil rights commission. Or that as Governor, he marched for civil rights on the streets of Detroit. Though he did those things too. More than these acts, it was the kind of man he was and the way he dealt with every person black or white. He was a man of the fairest instincts and a man of faith who knew that every person was a child of God.
“I’m grateful to him for so many things and above all for the knowledge of God, whose ways are not always our ways but whose justice is certain and whose mercy endures forever.
“Every good cause in this earth in the end relies on a plan bigger than ours. Without dependence on God, Dr. King said, ‘our efforts turn to ashes and our sunrises into darkest night.’ Unless his spirit pervades our lives, we find only what G.K. Chesterton called ‘cures that don’t cure, blessings that don’t bless, and solutions that don’t solve.’
“Of all that you bring to work of today’s civil rights cause, no advantage counts for more than this abiding confidence in the name above every name, against cruelty, arrogance, and all the foolishness of man, his spirit has carried the NAACP to many victories. More are still up ahead.
“So many victories are up ahead. And with each one of them we will be a better nation. Thank you so much and God bless every one of you. Thank you.”
SOURCE: MittRomney.com
“It’s a pleasure and a privilege to be in Israel again and to see so many dear friends.
“To step foot into Israel is to step foot in a nation that began with an ancient promise made in this land. The Jewish people persisted through one of the most monstrous crimes in human history, and now this nation has come to take its place among the most impressive democracies on earth. Israel’s achievements are a wonder of the modern world. These achievements are a tribute to the resilience of the Israeli people. You’ve managed against all odds time and again throughout your history to persevere, to rise up, and to emerge stronger.
“The historian, Paul Johnson, writing on the 50th anniversary of the creation of the Jewish state said that over the course of Israel’s life, 100 completely new independent states that come into existence, ‘Israel is the only one whose creation can fairly be called a miracle,’ he wrote.
“It’s a deeply moving experience to be in Jerusalem – the capital of Israel.
“Our two nations are separated by more than 5,000 miles, but for an American abroad, you can’t get much closer to the ideals and convictions of my own country than you do in Israel. We’re a part of the great fellowship of democracies. We speak the same language of freedom and justice and the right of every person to live in peace. We serve the same cause, and we provoke the same hatreds in the same enemies of civilization.
“It is my firm conviction that the security of Israel is in the vital national security interest of the United States.
“Ours is not an alliance based only on shared interests but also an enduring shared values. In those shared values, one of the strongest voices is that of your Prime Minister, my friend, Benjamin Netanyahu.
“And I met with him earlier this morning, and I look forward to my family joining with his this evening as they close the fast of this Tisha B’Av day. It’s remarkable to consider how much adversity over so great a span of time is recalled by just one day on the calendar. This is a day of remembrance and mourning.
“But like other such occasions, it also calls for clarity and resolve.
“At this time, we also remember the 11 Israeli athletes and coaches who are massacred at the Munich Olympics 40 years ago.
“And 10 years ago this week, 9 Israeli and American students were murdered at a terrorist attack in Hebrew University.
“Tragedies like these are not reserved to the past. They are a constant reminder of the reality of hate and the will with which that hate is executed upon the innocent.
“It was Menachem Begin who said this about the Ninth of the month of Av:  ‘We remember that day,’ he said, ‘and now have the responsibility to make sure that never again will our independence be destroyed and never again will the Jew become homeless or defenseless.’ ‘This,’ Prime Minister Begin added, ‘is the crux of the problems facing us in the future.’
“So it is today, as Israel faces enemies who deny past crimes against the Jewish people and seek to commit new ones.
“When Iran’s leaders deny the Holocaust or speak of wiping this nation off the map, only the naïve – or worse – will dismiss it as an excess of rhetoric.  Make no mistake: the ayatollahs in Tehran are testing our moral defenses.  They want to know who will object, and who will look the other way.
“My message to the people of Israel and the leaders of Iran is one and the same: We will not look away nor will my country look away from our passion and commitment to Israel.
“As Prime Minister Begin put it, in vivid and haunting words, ‘if an enemy of the Jewish people says he seeks to destroy us, believe him.’
“We have seen the horrors of history.  We will not stand by.  We will not watch them play out again.
“It would be foolish not to take Iran’s leaders at their word. They are, after all, the product of a radical theocracy.
“Over the years Iran has amassed a bloody and brutal record. It has seized embassies, targeted diplomats, and killed its own people. It supports the ruthless Assad regime in Syria. They have provided weapons that have killed American soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq. It has plotted to assassinate diplomats on American soil.  It is Iran that is the leading state sponsor of terrorism and the most destabilizing nation in the world.
“We have a solemn duty and a moral imperative to deny Iran’s leaders the means to follow through on their malevolent intentions.
“We should stand with all who would join our effort to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran – and that includes Iranian dissidents. Do not erase from your memory the scenes from three years ago, when that regime brought death to its own people as they rose up. The threat we face does not come from the Iranian people, but from the regime that oppresses them.
“Five years ago, at the Herzliya Conference, I stated my view that Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons capability presents an intolerable threat to Israel, to America, and to the world. That threat has only become worse.
“Now as then, the regime’s claims that it seeks to enrich nuclear material for peaceful purposes are belied by years of malign deceptions. Now as then, the conduct of Iran’s leaders gives us no reason to trust them with nuclear material.
“But today, the regime in Iran is five years closer to developing nuclear weapons capability.  Preventing that outcome must be our highest national security priority.
“I want to pause on that last point. It is sometimes said that those who are the most committed to stopping the Iranian regime from securing nuclear weapons are reckless and provocative and inviting war.
“The opposite is true. We are the true peacemakers. History teaches with force and clarity that when the world’s most despotic regimes secure the world’s most destructive weapons, peace often gives way to oppression, to violence, or to devastating war.
“We must not delude ourselves into thinking that containment is an option. We must lead the effort to prevent Iran from building and possessing nuclear weapons capability. We should employ any and all measures to dissuade the Iranian regime from its nuclear course, and it is our fervent hope that diplomatic and economic measures will do so. In the final analysis, of course, no option should be excluded. We recognize Israel’s right to defend itself, and that it is right for America to stand with you.
“These are some of the principles I first outlined five years ago at the Herzliya Conference. What was timely then has become urgent today.
“Let me turn from Iran to other nations in the Middle East, where we’ve seen rising tumult and chaos.
“To the north, Syria is on the brink of a civil war.  The dictator in Damascus, no friend to Israel and no friend to America, slaughters his own people as he desperately clings to power.
“Your other neighbor to the north, Lebanon, is under the growing and dangerous influence of Hezbollah.
“After a year of upheaval and unrest, Egypt now has an Islamist President, chosen in a democratic election. Hopefully, this new government understands that one true measure of democracy is how those elected by the majority respect the rights of those in the minority.  The international community must use its considerable influence to ensure that the new government honors the peace agreement with Israel that was signed by the government of Anwar Sadat.
“As you know only too well, since Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, thousands of rockets have rained on Israeli homes and cities. I’ve walked on the streets of Sderot, and honor the resolve of its people. And now, new attacks have been launched from the Sinai Peninsula.
“With Hezbollah rockets aimed at Israel from the north, and Hamas rockets aimed from the south, with much of the Middle East in tumult, and with Iran bent on nuclear arms, America’s vocal and demonstrated commitment to the defense of Israel is even more critical.
“Whenever the security of Israel is most in doubt, America’s commitment to Israel must be most secure.
“When the decision was before him in 1948, President Harry Truman decided without hesitation that the United States would be the first country to recognize the State of Israel.  From that moment to this, we have been the most natural of allies, but our alliance runs deeper than the designs of strategy or the weighing of interests.
“The story of how America – a nation still so new to the world by the standards of this ancient region – rose up to become the dear friend of the people of Israel is among the finest and most hopeful in our nation’s history.
“Different as our paths have been, we see the same qualities in one another. Israel and America are in many respects reflections of one another.
“We both believe in democracy, in the right of every people to select their leaders and choose their nation’s course.
“We both believe in the rule of law, knowing that in its absence, willful men may incline to oppress the weak.
“We both believe that our rights are universal, granted not by government but by our Creator.
“We both believe in free enterprise, because it is the only economic system that has lifted people from poverty, created a large and enduring middle-class, and that has inaugurated incomparable achievements and human flourishing.
“As someone who has spent most of his life in business, I am particularly impressed with Israel’s cutting edge technologies and thriving economy.  We recognize yours as the ‘start-up nation’ – and the evidence is all around us.
“You have embraced economic liberty.  You export technology, not tyranny or terrorism.  And today, your innovators and entrepreneurs have made the desert bloom and have made for a better world.  The citizens of our countries are fortunate to share the rewards of economic freedom and in the creativity of our respective entrepreneurs. What you have built here, with your own hands, is a tribute to your people, and a model for others throughout the world.
“Finally, we both believe in freedom of expression, because we are confident in our ideas and in the ability of men and women to think for themselves. We don’t fear open debate. If you want to hear some very sharp criticisms of Israel and its policies, you don’t have to cross any borders. All you have to do is walk down the street and into a café; there you’ll hear people reasoning, arguing, and speaking their mind. Or pick up an Israeli newspaper – you’ll find some of the toughest criticism of Israel you’ll read anywhere. Your nation, like ours, is stronger for this energetic exchange of ideas and opinions.
“That’s the way it is in a free society. There are many millions of people in the Middle East who would cherish the opportunity to do the same thing. These decent men and women desire nothing more than to live in peace and freedom and to have the opportunity to not only choose their government but to criticize it openly, without fear of repression or repercussion.
“I believe that those who oppose these fundamental rights are on the wrong side of history. But history’s march can be ponderously and painfully slow. We have a duty to speed and shape history by being unapologetic ambassadors for the values we share.
“The United States and Israel have shown that we can build strong economies and strong militaries. But we must also build strong arguments that advance our values and promote peace. We must work together to change hearts and awaken minds through the power of freedom, free enterprise and human rights.
“I believe that the enduring alliance between the State of Israel and the United States of America is more than a strategic alliance: it is a force for good in the world.
“America’s support of Israel should make every American proud.
“We should not allow the inevitable complexities of modern geopolitics to obscure fundamental touchstones. No country or organization or individual should ever doubt this basic truth:  A free and strong America will always stand with a free and strong Israel.
“And standing by Israel does not mean with military and intelligence cooperation alone.
“We cannot stand silent as those who seek to undermine Israel, voice their criticisms. And we certainly should not join in that criticism. Diplomatic distance in public between our nations emboldens Israel’s adversaries.
“By history and by conviction, our two countries are bound together. No individual, no nation, no world organization, will pry us apart. As long as we stay together and stand together, there is no threat we cannot overcome and very little that we cannot achieve.
“I love this country. I love America. I love the friendship, the passion that we have for the values which we share.
“Thank you for your support today. May God bless my country of America, and may He bless and protect the Nation of Israel. Thank you so much.”
Mitt Romney in Norfolk, Virginia on Aug. 11, 2012. SOURCE: CSpan.org
“Thank you so very much!
“It’s great to be back in Virginia and here in Norfolk. Your city’s beauty is only matched by its proud heritage as a defender of freedom. Thank you, Virginia. Thank you, Norfolk.
“Today we take another step forward in helping restore the promise of America.
“As we move forward in this campaign and on to help lead the nation to better days, it is an honor to announce my running mate and the next Vice President of the United States: Paul Ryan.
“His leadership begins with character and values. And Paul is a man of tremendous character, shaped in large part by his early life.
“Paul’s father died when he was in high school. That forced him to grow up earlier than any young man should. But Paul did, with the help of his devoted mother, his brothers and sister, and a supportive community. And as he did, he internalized the virtues and hard-working ethic of the Midwest.
“Paul Ryan works in Washington – but his beliefs remain firmly rooted in Janesville, Wisconsin. He is a person of great steadiness, whose integrity is unquestioned and whose word is good.
“Paul’s upbringing is obvious in how he has conducted himself throughout his life, including his leadership in Washington.
“In a city that is far too often characterized by pettiness and personal attacks, Paul Ryan is a shining exception. He doesn’t demonize his opponents. He understands that honorable people can have honest differences. And he appeals to the better angels of our nature. There are a lot of people in the other party who might disagree with Paul Ryan; I don’t know of anyone who doesn’t respect his character and judgment.
“Paul is in public life for all the right reasons – not to advance his personal ambitions but to advance the ideals of freedom and justice; and to increase opportunity and prosperity to people of every class and faith, every age and ethnic background. A faithful Catholic, Paul believes in the worth and dignity of every human life.
“With energy and vision, Paul Ryan has become an intellectual leader of the Republican Party. He understands the fiscal challenges facing America: our exploding deficits and crushing debt – and the fiscal catastrophe that awaits us if we don’t change course.
“He combines a profound sense of responsibility for what we owe the next generation with an unbounded optimism in America’s future and an understanding of all the wonderful things the American people can do.
“Paul also combines firm principles with a practical concern for getting things done. He has never been content to simply curse the darkness; he would rather light candles. And throughout his legislative career he’s shown the ability to work with members of both parties to find common ground on some of the hardest issues confronting the American people.
“So Paul and I are beginning on a journey that will take us to every corner of America. We’re offering a positive, governing agenda that will lead to economic growth, to widespread and shared prosperity, and that will improve the lives of our fellow citizens.
“Our Plan to Strengthen The Middle Class will get America back to work and get our country back on track.
“We offer solutions that are bold, specific, and achievable. We offer our commitment to help create 12 million new jobs and to bring better take home pay to middle-class families.
“To strengthen the middle-class, we’ll provide our workers and our children with the skills to succeed. We’ll cut the deficit, have trade that works for America, and champion small business. And finally, we will unleash our energy resources to achieve North American energy independence.
“We will help care for those who can’t care for themselves, and we will return work to welfare.
“As poverty has risen to historic and tragic levels, with nearly one out of six Americans now having fallen into poverty, we will act to bring these families into the middle-class.
“Unlike the current president who has cut Medicare funding by $700 billion, we will preserve and protect Medicare and Social Security and keep them there for future generations.
“And under the current president, healthcare has only become more expensive. We’re going to reform healthcare so that more Americans have access to affordable healthcare, and we will get that started by repealing and replacing Obamacare.
“And at a time when the President’s campaign is taking American politics to new lows, we’re going to do things differently. We are going to talk about aspirations and American ideals; about bringing people together to serve – to solve – the urgent problems facing our nation. And when that message wins in America, it will be a victory for every American.
“Today is a good day for America, and there are better days ahead.
“Join me in welcoming the next President [sic] of the United States – Paul Ryan.”
Mitt Romney campaigning in Hobbs, New Mexico on Aug. 23, 2012. SOURCE: C-Span.org
“…The President’s policies have not worked. Almost everything he’s done has made it harder for this economy to recover and, as a result of that, middle-income families across America are having hard times.
“Just another report came out yesterday showing that middle-income families are having a harder time maintaining their standard of living. This is inexplicable in a nation that’s so prosperous as our own to see a nation with so many middle-income families having such tough times. The median income of an American family has dropped over the last 3 and a half years by $4,000 even as gasoline prices have doubled, electricity rates have gone up, and food prices have gone up. And people are being squeezed and living paycheck to paycheck.
“I know this is the best the Obama team can do but we can do better and we will.
“Now, I’ve gone across the country over the last several months describing a 5-point plan that’s going to get this country going again and create good jobs and rising incomes. And those 5 points I’m going to mention to you briefly but one of them I’m going to talk about in some depth today.
“Number one, of course, is taking advantage of our energy resources – our oil, our coal, our gas, nuclear, renewables, wind, solar. That’s number one.
“Number two, we have to make sure that our schools are world class. This nation invented education. We’ve got to fix our schools and make them the best in the world.
“Number three, we’ve got to have more trade. We need to open up trade with Latin America and other parts of the world and crack down on cheaters like China when they cheat and steal jobs with unfair trading practices.
“Number four, we won’t get businesses and individuals to risk starting enterprises here and hiring people if they think America is going to become Greece. So we’re going to have to get serious about cutting the federal spending, encouraging growth, and finally balance our budget in this country.
“And number five, we’ve got to champion small business. We’ve got to help small business, keep their taxes competitive, get regulators to see their jobs as to encourage business not crush it, and take off that big cloud that’s scaring away hiring from small business – and I’m talking about Obamacare and we need to repeal it and replace it with something that helps bring down the cost of health care.
“Now, I want to go a little deeper for a moment as I talk about that number one objective, which is energy.
“If I’m the President of the United States in a few months here, I will set a national goal of America and North America energy independence by 2020. North American energy independence by 2020. That means we produce all the energy we use in North America.
“And there are a number of things I’m going to do to make that happen. It is achievable. This is not some pie-in-the-sky kind of thing. This is a real, achievable objective.
“And I have a chart that still – despite the wind – still holding up up here. These guys have held it up with about every piece of weight you can think of. But on the left hand side, you see a bar there that represents – you can’t read the writing; it’s too far back. But I can read it even from here so I’m going to tell you what it says.
“That bar shows how much our total demand is in the United States right now. And right now, we’re making about 15 million barrels per day. We’re producing in North America about 15 million barrels a day. The rest we import. So we’re producing about two-thirds of what we use, we’re importing about one-third.
“And what you’re seeing as you go across the line there are various sources of additional energy for this North American continent.
“First, I have down there a bar representing conventional sources and actually there’s a little gray slice there. That suggests that conventional sources – meaning the wells we already have, the fields that we already have, the technologies we already have – are probably going to see a reduction in production over the next 10 years. And so we’re going to have to make up for that reduction and add to it.
“How are we going to do that? Well, that’s the next bar. Offshore drilling. We’re going to add about 2 million barrels per day in offshore drilling.
“Tight oil. That’s oil that come from places where you have to use fracking technology to help get it out, whether that’s the Bakken Range in North Dakota or whether it’s right here in New Mexico. Tight oil is a big source of additional supply. That’s about another 2 million barrels per day.
“Alaska. This is ANWR, another source in Alaska. That will add additional oil production in this country.
“Natural gas liquids. You know that natural gas is just booming as a source of energy. As you produce natural gas, you get some liquids. Those liquids can be refined and used to create gasoline for automotive purposes as well. That’s about another 2 million barrels per day.
“Then we come to biofuels. Biofuels, whether ethanol or biodiesel, will produce about 1 million barrels per day of additional capacity.
“Then we come to Canada. Canada has oil sands. We’re going to take advantage of those and build that Keystone Pipeline and work with Canada to make sure we have advantage of their energy sources.
“And the last little bar that I have there is Mexico. And Mexico – I’m not counting on any increase there. They’ve actually been declining slightly but I think by virtue of a new President there and conviction on the part of both parties in the most recent elections there to encourage closer relations with us, we’re going to find ourselves being able to work with Mexico to share our technology and know-how to help them become more productive and add to the energy produced in North America.
“And the net of all this is, as you can see, by 2020, we’re able to produce somewhere between 23 to 28 million barrels per day of oil, and we won’t need to buy any oil from the Middle East or Venezuela or anywhere else where we don’t want to.
“Now, you might wonder how in the world am I going to do all of those things because those opportunities have existed for a long time – we just haven’t taken advantage of them. And so there’s some things I’m going to do differently that makes it possible for us to be able to achieve those improvements in production from all those sources I’ve described.
“Number one, on federal lands, the permitting process to actually drill and get oil or gas is extraordinarily slow.
“Now, interestingly on state lands and private lands, state regulators have streamlined their permitting process, their evaluation, environmental process, safety processes. They found a way because we compete – states do – with one another. They found a way to do a job in a more efficient way.
“So for instance, in North Dakota, it takes 10 days to get a permit for a new well. In Colorado, it takes 27 days. That’s to get on state land a permit or private land. But you know how long it takes the federal government regulators to get your permit on federal land? On average, 307 days.
“So here’s what I’m going to do. I’m going to have the states take responsibility for the permitting process on federal lands. Now, of course, the process is going to have to be reviewed and approved by the federal government. It’s going to be overseen and monitored. But we’re going to have state regulators – not just regulate oil production, gas production on state lands and private lands but also on federal lands, and that will improve the creation of new oil wells, new gas wells, and get more production to the people that need it.
“Now, I also want to note another way we’re going to get more production and that’s with regards to our offshore sources. Right now, the federal government has been holding off on offshore development. And what we’re going to have to do is speed that up and make it possible.
“So I’m going to put together a five-year leasing plan to lease offshore sources, and we’re going to make as part of that the Carolinas, Virginia, and the Gulf. We’re going to have targets.
“We’re going to have the companies that do the drillings responsible for hitting those targets. And if not, we’re going to have corrective measures.
“But we’re finally going to also make sure that we implement state-of-the-art safety procedures for offshore drilling and assure that as we put in place these regulations and procedures that they’re designed for safety, they’re not designed to stop drilling for energy resources. Using the law to stop production of energy is not in the best interest of the United States of America and our people.
“Number three, I’m going to establish an energy partnership with Canada and Mexico. We need to work together with these guys, work collaboratively. And we need a fast-track process to make sure that infrastructure projects are approved. And particularly, we’re going to get that Keystone Pipeline built as one of those first infrastructure projects that take advantage of their resources.
“Number four, it’s about time we get an accurate inventory about how much energy we have. The President keeps on talking about the idea that we only have 2% of the world’s oil reserves. That’s a dramatic understatement of the energy resources of this country. It’s probably at least 7 times that amount of even more. So I’m going to authorize a new seismic study of our onshore and offshore resources to find out what we have and where we have it. I’m also going to require those that have these kind of seismic surveys in private hands collect them so that we can look at them, share them with one another. We’re going to take advantage of an understanding of where our resources are so we can plan accordingly.
“I’m also going to do something which has been around for a long time, and that is I’m going to change the regulatory and permitting process to make it more transparent and to make sure that as we put in place regulations, they’re designed to actually help get production where it’s needed and not using regulation to stop the production of energy. Sometimes I have the impression that the whole regulatory attitude of the administration is trying to stop oil and gas and coal, that they don’t want those sources, that instead they want to get those things so expensive and so rare that wind and solar become highly cost effective and efficient.
“Look, I like wind and solar like the next person. But I don’t want the law to be used to stop the production of oil and gas and coal, and I’m going to get the law to be finally transparent with timelines, statute of limitations, and stop using these legal suits to try and stop the production of energy in this country.
“Number six, I want to promote energy innovation. Now, what do I mean by that? We’ve watched the President follow a different path. He’s taken federal dollars – your money – to invest in companies – solar companies, wind companies. About $90 billion in so-called green jobs. $90 billion is going to this.
“Look, the government of the United States is not a very good venture capitalist. He says he’s picking winners and losers – mostly, he’s been picking losers, all right? I mean, you know, Solyndra, Fisker, and Tesla. There’s a long list of these businesses he’s investing in.
“I don’t want the government investing in companies, particularly companies of his campaign contributors. I want instead to have our government investing in basic science and research, finding new sources of energy, also finding ways to be more efficient in our use of energy.
“I happen to believe that that line – that dotted I have up there – which says that American energy usage – North American energy usage – will stay about the same. I’d say we can bring that down. I believe that through technology and innovation, we’re going to find ways to bring down our energy and we’ll be even – we may even be an exporter at some point of energy when you consider all of our resources.
“But this – this is where we should be devoting our federal dollars not on trying to put money into businesses, which often fail, but instead putting money into technology and science and research. We do that and you’re going to see new opportunities for us to get America and North America energy independent.
“Now, what are the benefits of all this? If we actually get there? And I’m planning on getting there. I get elected, we’re going to get there.
“Let me tell you what the benefits are. Three million jobs. Three million jobs come from doing this. Three million jobs.
“That’s a million in manufacturing. That’s a lot of energy-related jobs. Three million jobs come back to this country by taking advantages of something we have right underneath our feet – that’s oil and gas and coal. We’re going to make it happen. We’re going to create those jobs.
“Let me tell you what else it does. It adds $500 billion to the size of our economy. That’s more good wages. That’s an opportunity for more Americans to have a brighter, prosperous future. It also means, by the way, tens of billions – potentially hundreds of billions – of dollars of tax revenues going into states and the federal government, which can make sure we have a military second to none and schools that lead in the world and care for our seniors, better roads and bridges.
“Accomplishing what I’ve described right there also means lower energy prices for American families and by the way for American businesses. So that as businesses are thinking about where to build a factory and they look at the cost of production, let’s say, of a particular product and they look at the energy cost, they see that here in North America we have ample energy and it’s low-cost, and that will bring businesses back here. So you’re going to see more manufacturing come back to the United States as a result of doing what is so clearly in our best interest.
“By the way, we all hear about something known as the trade deficit – that’s how much more we buy from other people than they buy from us. Doing what I described right there will reduce that trade deficit alone by 80%. Think of the impact that will have on the strength of our dollar.
“And let me mention something else and that is we have to have a national security strategy which takes into account the fact that America will be stronger if we have all the energy that we need to power our economy and power our military. This is not just a matter of economy, of jobs, of rising incomes, and a growing economy and more tax revenues – it’s also more security. It means we don’t have to rely on people who in some cases don’t like us very much, that America will be able to stand on its own, will stand arm-in-arm with our friends in Mexico and our friends in Canada and assure that we have all the energy we need to keep America powered and to make sure that our military never has to borrow from someone across the ocean that might not be our best friend.
“Now I happen to believe if you do what I’ve described – and I’m planning on doing it when I get elected – if we do that and those other four things that I described, which are fixing our schools and our training programs for people who need good work and making sure that we improve trade to make trade work for America and also finally tackling our deficit and reign in the excessive spending and then champion small business. You do those things and this economy is going to come roaring back.
“The other day the Vice President was talking about how things are getting so much better for the middle-class Americans. I wish he’d go out and talk to some people and meet people across this land. It’s not getting better for the 23 million people who are out of work or stopped looking for work. It’s not getting better for those people who’s seen their income go down and their costs go up. It’s not getting better for people who are coming out of college and can’t find work.
“But what I’ve described here will make things better for the middle-class Americans. People all over this country will be convinced again that it’s great to be middle-class in America. Moms and dads will know their kids coming out of school are going to be able to get a good job.
“This is critical for our generation, for the coming generation, and for the world. I say for the world because people around the world look to America. They need a strong America. They know that a strong America is essential to peace on the planet, that a strong America keeps the world’s worst actors from doing the world’s worst things.
“I had the privilege just to – well, a few weeks ago – of meeting Lech Walesa. I came into his office and he said through an interpreter, he said, ‘Mitt, you’re probably tired. You sit down. I’ll talk. You listen.’ And so I did, and he began to speak for about 15 minutes uninterrupted. And his message was pretty straightforward. He repeated it again and again. ‘Where’s American leadership? We need America’s leadership. America’s the only super power on the planet. We need America to be strong.’
“Getting a North American energy independence is key to American leadership. So is fixing our schools and balancing our budget, making trade work for us and understanding the power – the power of small business, individual initiative, hard work. This is what America is all about.
“I’ve been inspired as I’ve gone across the campaign trail over the last months as I’ve seen Americans who’ve taken the initiative to try and build enterprises for themselves and improve the lives of their families. I’m inspired by the power of individuals – of a person in a family, for instance, changing the lives of the other people in the family.
“My sister did that. My sister has eight kids – Lynn [SP?] does. Eight children. She’s so enthusiastic and positive and energetic. She’s just raised terrific kids. Seven of them are married. Her eighth is a Down Syndrome boy. He’s now 43. She’s 75. Her husband passed away a few years ago so Jeffrey [SP?] lives at home with her. She devotes her life to caring for him and caring for her kids and caring for her grandchildren.
“The impact of one person of a strong personality, of love and affection and caring – enormous in a family, enormous also in an economy.
“I’ve gone across the country and met entrepreneurs of all kinds and am impressed by their capacity to lift others through their ideas.
“I met a woman who had her own business. I said to her, ‘How did you get your company started?’ She said, ‘Well, my husband lost his job and he took a class in upholstering.’ And she – because she was the better business mind in the family – decided to start a company of her own and she hired him as her first employee. And she went on to hire 40 more people as upholsterers, and now she has a successful upholstery company.
“I met another woman in High Point, North Carolina, just a few days ago – Melanie McNamara. She’s in the furniture business. Hard to compete with China in the furniture business and other foreign sources, but she found a way to do it to save her business and the jobs of the people who work for her. She decided she’d focus her furniture in one small segment. She makes furniture for waiting rooms in hospitals, and she does it well. And by virtue of that insight – making a superb product and a quality at a good price – she has been able to maintain her business and the jobs of some 27 people who work with her.
“I met another guy who by virtue of his insight and imagination and hard work and smarts was able to change the lives of a lot of other people. His name is Jim Liautaud. Jim’s from southern Illinois. Graduated second in his high school class – second from the bottom. And he decided college was not in his future. He talked to his dad about a loan. His dad agreed to loan him the money to get a business started. They’d split it about 50-50. He was going to be in the food business. Jim went on to buy a hamburger griddle and a hot dog roller – you know, they put those hot dog on – and one of those hoods that takes out the smoke. By the time he costed it all out, he found out that it was more expensive than he had money for. About the only thing he could do for the money he borrowed from his dad was make sandwiches. So he set up tables – alright. Set up tables in the garage and started making sandwiches and then delivered them to people at business. Now, Jim Liataud’s business is known as Jimmy John’s. He has 1,500 Jimmy John’s restaurants. He employs 60,000 people. One person making a difference.
“It’s an amazing thing, America, where individual initiative, individual know-how, hard work, people pursuing their own course, their own dreams, have built America. Freedom has built America. When the founders crafted the founding documents of America, they said our rights came from God. They didn’t say they came from government. They came from God, and among them were life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That’s what makes us a unique and exceptional nation we are. Individuals – moms, dads, kids in school, entrepreneurs, even political leaders who have initiative, insight, passion, are willing to take risks and make a difference. It’s what makes America what we are.
“I think the President thinks it’s somehow the government that makes us what we are. That’s not the answer. The answer for America is to rely on individuals and their dreams and their passions. I’m going to keep America strong by returning America to the freedoms that we’ve all known, bringing to us, bringing to each individual the capacity to achieve, to pursue their dreams.
“I love America. I love the principles upon which America was founded. I know if we do the things I’ve described – those five things – America’s going to come roaring back. Our families need it. Our kids need it. The world needs it. We’re going to keep America the shining city on the hill. Together, we’re going to get New Mexico to help me become the next President and we’re going to get America on track to keep it great for the entire century. Thank you so much! Great to be with you.”
“There are 47% of the people who will vote for the president no matter what. All right, there are 47% who are with him, who are dependent upon government, who believe that they are victims, who believe the government has a responsibility to care for them, who believe that they are entitled to health care, to food, to housing, to you-name-it. That that’s an entitlement. And the government should give it to them. And they will vote for this president no matter what.
“And I mean the President starts off with 49, 49…he starts off with a huge number. These are people who pay no income tax. 47% of Americans pay no income tax. So our message of low taxes doesn’t connect.
“So he’ll be out there talking about tax cuts for the rich. I mean, that’s what they sell every 4 years. And so my job is not to worry about those people. I’ll never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives.
“What I have to do is convince the 5% to 10% that are independents, that are thoughtful, that look at voting one way or another depending upon in some cases emotion, whether they like the guy or not.”

“Thank you, Mr. President.  It’s an honor to be here this morning, and I appreciate the kind words and your introduction is very touching.
“If there’s one thing we’ve learned this election season, by the way, it is that a few words from Bill Clinton can do any man a lot of good.  All I got to do now is wait a couple of days for that bounce to happen.
“As you know, since serving as President here in America, President Clinton has devoted himself to lifting people around the world.  And one of the best things that can happen to any cause, to any people, is to have Bill Clinton as its advocate.  And that’s really true for a whole series of causes but particularly for the needy and neglected causes. If he gets behind them, it makes a real difference. And it’s that kind of work that brings us together today. And I appreciate your willingness to spend time and listen to those who are coming with their messages.
“Now, there are a number of things that impress me about the Global Initiative and one of them is that as I’ve seen it from afar, I’ve been impressed by the extraordinary power you have derived by harnessing together people of different backgrounds and persuasions. You’ve been able to fashion partnerships, if you will, across the traditional boundaries — public and private, for-profit and not for profit, charitable and commercial.
“On a smaller scale, by the way, I’ve seen the power of partnerships like this work before.
“In Massachusetts, Bill Clinton just spoke about City Year, and I have here Michael Brown – one of the founders. This was an effort where two social pioneers, Michael and his friend Alan Khazei, brought corporations and government and together with volunteers to form this entity. And it was the model, as the President said, for Americorps.
“And I actually happened to be there the first time he visited City Year. He was there investigating the life-changing successes which were being reported in the lives of these young people who’d came together for a year of service and as they were linked with corporate teams that worked with them.
“I also saw the power of these kind of partnerships in 2002 when I was asked to be the head of the Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City. I saw what could happen when the disparate elements of a community were willing to join together in extraordinary unity, and we were able to overcome challenges that many thought would be impossible for an organization like ours to overcome.
“Now, the Clinton Global Initiative has also demonstrated the effectiveness of entrepreneurship and social enterprise.  You endeavor not only to comfort and assuage the pains of the afflicted, but to also change lives thorough freedom, through free enterprise, through entrepreneurship and through the incomparable dignity that is associated with work.
“Free enterprise, as we know, has done more to bless humanity than any other economic system not only because it’s the only system that creates a prosperous middle class, but also because it’s the only system where the individual enjoys the freedom to guide and build his or her life. Free enterprise cannot only make us better off financially, it can make us better people.
“Ours is a very compassionate nation, as you know. We look around us and see withering suffering. Our hearts break.
“Though we make up just 4.5% of the world’s population, we donate nearly a quarter of all global foreign aid—more than twice as much as any other nation on earth.
“And Americans give more than money.  Pastors like Rick Warren lead mission trips that send thousands of Americans around the world, bringing aid and comfort to the poorest places on the planet.
“American troops are first on the scene of natural disasters.  When an earthquake strikes in Haiti and care packages come from all around the world but they come first from America – and not far behind are former Presidents Clinton and Bush.
“But too often our passion for charity as a people is tempered by our sense that our aid is not always effective. We see stories of cases where American aid has been diverted to corrupt governments. We sometimes wonder why year after year after year of aid and relief seem never to extinguish the suffering and hardship, why it persists decade after decade.
“Perhaps some of the disappointments are due to our failure to recognize just how much the developing world has changed.
“A lot of our foreign aid efforts that we put in place some years ago were designed at a time when government development assistance accounted for roughly 70% of all resources flowing to developing nations.
“Today, 82% of the resources that flow to the developing world come from the private sector not the governmental sector.
“If somehow foreign aid can really leverage that massive investment by the private sector, it may be able to exponentially expand the ability to not only care for those that are suffering but also to change their lives in a permanent basis.
“Now, private enterprise is having a greater and greater positive impact actually on its in the developing world.
“As an example, the John Deere Company embarked upon a pilot project in Africa where it developed a suite of farm tools that could be attached to a very small tractor.  Then the company also worked to expand the availability of capital to farmers so they can maintain and develop their businesses.  The result has been a good investment for John Deere and greater opportunity for African farmers, who are now able to grow more crops, and to provide for more plentiful lives of their own.
“For American foreign aid to become more effective, it must embrace the principles that you see in these global initiatives: the power of partnerships, access the transformative nature of free enterprise, and the leverage of the abundant resources that can come from the private sector.
“Now, I believe that there are three, quite legitimate, objects of our foreign aid in this country.
“First, of course, is to address humanitarian needs.  Such is the case with PEPFAR, which has given medical treatment to millions suffering from HIV and AIDS.
“Second, is to foster a substantial United States strategic interest – perhaps as military, diplomatic, or economic.
“But third – there’s another purpose and one that I think has to receive much more attention and a much higher priority in a Romney Administration. And that is aid that elevates people and brings about lasting change in communities and in nations.
“As an example, a lot of Americans, including myself, are troubled by the developments in the Middle East.
“Syria has witnessed the killing of tens of thousands of people.
“The president of Egypt is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood.
“Our Ambassador to Libya was assassinated in a terrorist attack.
“Iran is moving toward nuclear weapons capability.
“We somehow feel that we are at the mercy of events, rather than shaping events.
“I’m often asked why, and what can we do about it to lead the Middle East to stability, to ease the suffering and the anger and the hate there and violence.
“Obviously, religious extremism is certainly part of the problem.  But that’s not the whole story.
“The population of the Middle East is very young, as you know, particularly in comparison with the population of the developed nations. And typically, these young people – as the President indicated a minute ago – don’t have a lot of job prospects. The levels of youth unemployment across the region are excessive and chronic.
“And in nations that have undergone a change in leadership recently, young people have greater access to information in the past that was being carefully guarded by tyrants and dictators.  But now it’s available.  They see the good as well as the bad in surrounding societies. They can now organize across vast regions, mobilizing populations. Idle, humiliated by poverty, and crushed by government corruption, their frustration and their anger grows.
“In such a setting, for America to actually change lives, to change communities and nations in the Middle East, foreign aid must also play a role. And the shape that role should play was brought into focus by the life and death of Muhammed Bouazizi of Tunisia, the street vendor whose self-immolation who sparked thereby the Arab Spring.
“You probably know about his background but it touched me. He was just 26 years old.  He had provided for his family since he was a very young boy.  He worked a small fruit stand, selling to passers-by. The regular harassment by corrupt bureaucrats was elevated one day when they came in and took crates of his fruit and then they took his weighing scales – his only capital equipment – away from him.
“On the day of his final protest, witnesses say that an officer slapped him and he cried out, ‘Why are you doing this to me?  I’m a simple person, and I just want to work.’
“I just want to work.
“Work.  That has to be at the heart of our effort to help people build economies that can create jobs for people, young and old alike.
“Work builds self-esteem. It transforms minds from fantasy and fanaticism to reality and grounding.
“Work does not long tolerate corruption nor will it quietly endure the brazen theft by government of the product of hard-working men and women.
“To foster work and enterprise in the Middle East and other developing countries, I’ll initiate something I’ll call ‘Prosperity Pacts.’  Working with the private sector, the program will identify the barriers to investment, trade, and entrepreneurialism in developing nations. In exchange for removing those barriers and opening their markets to U.S. investment and trade, developing nations will receive U.S. assistance packages focused on developing the institutions of liberty, the rule of law, and property rights.
“We’ll focus our efforts on small and medium-size businesses. Microfinance has been an effective tool at promoting enterprise and prosperity, but we got to expand support to small- and medium-size businesses that are oftentimes too large for microfinance, but too small for traditional banking.
“The aim of a much larger share of our aid must be the promotion of work and the fostering of free enterprise. Nothing we can do as a nation will change lives and nations more effectively and permanently than sharing the insight that lies at the foundation of America’s own economy–and that is that free people pursuing happiness in their own ways build a strong and prosperous nation.
“Now when I was in business, I traveled to a number of different countries.  I was often struck by the vast difference in wealth among nations that were sometimes neighbors. Some of that was due to geography.  Rich countries often had natural resources like mineral deposits or access to waterways for transportation.  But in some cases, all that separated a rich country from a more poor one was a faint line on a map.  Countries that were physically right next door to each other were economically worlds apart.  You can think of North Korea and South Korea.
“I became convinced that the crucial difference between these countries wasn’t geography.  I noticed that the most successful countries shared something in common.  They were the freest.  They protected the rights of individuals.  They enforced the rule of law.  And they encouraged trade and enterprise.  They understood that economic freedom is the only force in history that has consistently lifted people out of poverty – and kept people out of poverty.
“Look, a temporary aid package can give an economy a boost.  It can fund some projects.  It can pay some bills.  It can employ some people for a time.  But it can’t sustain an economy—not for long.  It can’t pull the whole cart, if you will, because at some point, the money runs out.
“But an assistance program that helps unleash free enterprise can create enduring prosperity.  Free enterprise is based on mutual exchange—or, rather, millions of exchanges—millions of people trading, buying, selling, building, investing.  Yes, it has its ups and downs.  It isn’t perfect.  It’s more reliable, however, and more durable.  And ultimately, as history shows, it’s more successful.
“By the way, the best example of the good free enterprise can do for the developing world is the example of the developed world itself.  My friend Arthur Brooks of the American Enterprise Institute has pointed out that before the year 1800, living standards in the West were appalling.  A person born in the eighteenth century lived essentially as his great-great-grandfather had.  Life was overwhelmed with disease and danger and early death.
“But starting in 1800, the West began two centuries of free enterprise and trade.  Living standards rose.  Literacy spread.  Health improved.  In our own country, between 1820 and 1998, real per capita GDP increased twenty-two-fold.
“As the most prosperous nation in history, it is our duty to keep the engine of prosperity running—to open markets across the globe and to spread prosperity to all the corners of the earth.  We should do it because it’s the right moral course to help others of our brothers and sisters.
“But it is also economically the smart thing for us to do. In our export industries, the typical job pays above what the comparable workers make in other industries, and more than one-third of manufacturing jobs in this country are tied to exports.  Sadly, we have lost over half a million manufacturing jobs over the last four years.
“As president, I will reverse this trend by ensuring we have trade that works for America.  I want negotiate new trade agreements, ask Congress to reinstate Trade Promotion Authority. I want to complete negotiations to expand the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and create what I call a ‘Reagan Economic Zone,’ where any nation willing to play by the rules of free and fair trade can participate in a new community committed to fair and free trade.
“I’ve laid out a new approach for a new era.  We’re going to couple aid with trade with aid and private investment to empower individuals, encourage innovators, and reward entrepreneurs.
“Today, we face a world with unprecedented challenges and complexities.  We should not forget—and cannot forget—that not far from here, a voice of unspeakable evil and hatred has spoken out, threatening Israel and the civilized world.
“But we come together knowing that the bitterness of hate is no match for the strength of love.
“In the weeks ahead, I will continue to speak to these challenges and the opportunities that this moment presents us.   I will go beyond foreign assistance and describe also what I believe America’s strategy should be to secure our interests and ideals during this uncertain time.
“A year from now, I hope to return to this meeting as President, having made substantial progress toward achieving the reforms I’ve outlined.  But I also hope to remind the world of the goodness and the bigness of the American heart.  I will never apologize for America.  I believe that America has been one of the greatest forces for good the world has ever known.  We can hold that knowledge in our hearts with humility and unwavering conviction.
“God bless you and this great work. God bless my country and yours. Thank you so very much. It’s an honor to be with you.”
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney at the Virginia Military Institute on Oct. 8, 2012. SOURCE: C-Span.org
“Thank you so very much for that warm welcome.
“I particularly appreciate the introduction by my good friend and tireless campaign companion, Gov. Bob McDonnell.  We have traveled the state together time and time again and he goes all over the country helping me. He is also showing here in Virginia what conservative leadership can do to build a stronger economy.
“Thank you also Congressman Goodlatte for joining us today. I appreciate his service and leadership.
“And particular thanks to Gen. Peay. I appreciate his invitation to be with you today at the Virginia Military Institute.  It’s a privilege to be at an Institution like this that has done so much for our nation, both in times of war and in times of peace.
“For more than 170 years, VMI has done more than educate students.  It has guided their transformation into citizens, warriors, and leaders.  VMI graduates have served with honor in our nation’s defense, just as many are doing today in Afghanistan and other lands.
“Since the September 11th attacks, many of VMI’s sons and daughters have defended America, and I mourn with you the 15 brave souls who have been lost. I join you in praying for the many VMI graduates who are right now serving in harm’s way.  May God bless all who serve, and all who have served.
“Of all the VMI graduates, none is more distinguished perhaps than George Marshall—the Chief of Staff of the Army who became Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense, who helped to vanquish fascism and then planned Europe’s rescue from despair. His commitment to peace was born of his direct knowledge of the awful costs and consequences of war.
“General Marshall once said, ‘The only way human beings can win a war is to prevent it.’  Those words were true in his time—and they still echo in ours.
“Last month, our nation was attacked again.  A U.S. Ambassador and three of our fellow Americans are dead—murdered in Benghazi, Libya.  Among the dead were three veterans.  All of them were fine men, on a mission of peace and friendship to a nation that clearly longs for both.  President Obama has said that Ambassador Chris Stevens and his colleagues represented the best of America.  And he’s right.  We all mourn their loss.
“The attacks against us in Libya were not an isolated incident.  They were accompanied by anti-American riots in nearly two dozen other countries, mostly in the Middle East, but also in Africa and Asia.  Our embassies have been attacked.  Our flag has been burned.  Many of our citizens have been threatened and driven from their overseas homes by vicious mobs, shouting ‘Death to America.’ These mobs hoisted the black banner of Islamic extremism over American embassies on the anniversary of 9/11.
“As the dust settles, as the murdered are buried, Americans are asking how this happened, how the threats we face have grown worse, and what this calls on America to do.  These are the right questions.
“And I have come here today to offer a larger perspective on these tragic recent events—and to share with you, and to share with all Americans, my vision for a freer, more prosperous, and more peaceful world.
“The attacks on America last month should not be seen as random acts.  They are expressions of a larger struggle that is playing out across the broader Middle East—a region that’s now in the midst of the most profound upheaval in a century.  And the fault lines of this struggle can be seen clearly in Benghazi itself. “The attack on our consulate there on September 11th, 2012 was likely the work of forces affiliated with those that attacked our homeland on September 11th, 2001.
“This latest assault cannot be blamed on a reprehensible video insulting Islam, despite the Administration’s attempts to convince us of that for so long. “No, as the Administration has finally conceded, these attacks were the deliberate work of terrorists who use violence to impose their dark ideology on others, especially women and girls; who are fighting to control much of the Middle East today; and who seek to wage perpetual war on the West. “We saw all of this in Benghazi last month—but we also saw something else, something hopeful.
“After the attack on our consulate, tens of thousands of Libyans, most of them young people, held a massive protest in Benghazi against the very extremists who had murdered our people.  They waved signs that read, ‘The Ambassador was Libya’s friend’ and ‘Libya is sorry.’ They chanted ‘No to militias, no to militias.’ They marched, unarmed, to the terrorist compound.  Then they burned it to the ground.  As one Libyan woman said, ‘We are not going to go from darkness to darkness.’
“This is the struggle that’s now shaking the entire Middle East.
“It is the struggle of millions and millions of people—men and women, young and old, Muslims, Christians and non-believers—all of whom have had enough of the darkness.
“It is a struggle for the dignity that comes with freedom, and opportunity, and the right to live under laws of our own making.
“It is a struggle that has been unfolded under green banners in the streets of Iran, in the public squares of Tunisia and Egypt and Yemen, and in the fights for liberty in Iraq, and Afghanistan, and Libya, and now Syria.
“In short, it is a struggle between liberty and tyranny, justice and oppression, hope and despair.
“We have seen this struggle before.
“It’d be familiar to George Marshall.  In his time, in the ashes of world war, another critical part of the world was torn between democracy and despotism.  Fortunately, we had leaders of courage and vision, both Republicans and Democrats, who knew that America had to support friends who shared our values, and prevent today’s crises from becoming tomorrow’s conflicts.
“Statesmen like Marshall rallied our nation to rise to its responsibilities as the leader of the free world.  We helped our friends to build and sustain free societies and free markets.  We defended our friends, and ourselves, from our common enemies.  We led.  We led.
“And though the path was long and uncertain, the thought of war in Europe is as inconceivable today as it seemed inevitable in the last century.
“This is what makes America exceptional.
“It is not just the character of our country—it is the record of our accomplishments.  America has a proud history of strong, confident, principled global leadership—a history that has been written by patriots of both parties.  This is America at its best.
“And it is the standard by which we measure every President, as well as anyone who wishes to be President.
“Unfortunately, this President’s policies have not been equal to our best examples of world leadership.  And nowhere is this more evident than in the Middle East.
“I want to be very clear:  The blame for the murder of our people in Libya, and the attacks on our embassies in so many other countries, lies solely with those who carried them out—no one else.
“But it is our responsibility and the responsibility of our President to use America’s great power to shape history—not to lead from behind, leaving our destiny at the mercy of events.  Unfortunately, that’s exactly where we find ourselves in the Middle East under President Obama.
“The relationship between the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of Israel, for example, our closest ally in the region, has suffered great strains.
“The President explicitly stated that his goal was to put ‘daylight’ between the United States and Israel.  And he has succeeded.  This is a dangerous situation that has set back the hope of peace in the Middle East and emboldened our mutual adversaries, especially Iran.
“Iran today has never been closer to a nuclear weapons capability.  It has never posed a greater danger to our friends, our allies, and us.  And it has never acted less deterred by America, as was made clear last year when Iranian agents plotted to assassinate the Saudi Ambassador in our nation’s capital.
“And yet, when millions of Iranians took to the streets in June of 2009, when they demanded freedom from a cruel regime that threatens the world, when they cried out, ‘Are you with us, or are you with them?’ —the American President was silent.
“Across the greater Middle East, as the joy born from the downfall of dictators has given way to the painstaking work of building capable security forces, and growing economies, and developing effective democratic institutions, the President has failed to offer the tangible support that our partners want and need.
“In Iraq, the costly gains made by our troops are being eroded by rising violence, a resurgent Al-Qaeda, the weakening of democracy in Baghdad, and the rising influence of Iran. And yet, America’s ability to influence events for the better in Iraq has been undermined by the abrupt withdrawal of our entire troop presence.
“The President has tried—he tried but he also failed—to secure a responsible and gradual drawdown that would have better secured our gains.
“The President has also failed to lead in Syria, where more than 30,000 men, women, and children have been massacred by the Assad regime over the past 20 months. Violent extremists are flowing into the fight. Our ally Turkey has been attacked. And the conflict threatens stability in the region.
“America can take pride in the blows that our military and intelligence professionals have inflicted on Al-Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan, including the killing of Osama bin Laden.  These are real achievements won at a high cost.
“Al-Qaeda remains a strong force, however, in Yemen and Somalia, in Libya and other parts of North Africa, in Iraq, and now in Syria. And other extremists have gained ground across the region.
“Drones and the modern instruments of war are important tools in our fight, but they are no substitute for a national security strategy for the Middle East.
“The President is fond of saying that ‘The tide of war is receding.’  And I want to believe him as much as anyone.
“But when we look at the Middle East today—with Iran closer than ever to nuclear weapons capability, with the conflict in Syria threatening to destabilize the region, with violent extremists on the march, and with an American Ambassador and three others dead likely at the hands of Al-Qaeda affiliates— it’s clear that the risk of conflict in the region is higher now than when the President took office.
“I know the President hopes for a safer, freer, and a more prosperous Middle East allied with us. I share this hope.
“But hope is not a strategy.  We can’t support our friends and defeat our enemies in the Middle East when our words are not backed up by deeds, when our defense spending is being arbitrarily and deeply cut, when we have no trade agenda to speak of, and the perception of our strategy is not one of partnership, but of passivity.
“The greater tragedy of it all is that we’re missing an historic opportunity to win new friends who share our values in the Middle East—friends who are fighting for their own futures against the very same violent extremists, and evil tyrants, and angry mobs who seek to harm us.
“Unfortunately, so many of these people who could be our friends feel that our President is indifferent to their quest for freedom and dignity. As one Syrian woman put it, ‘We will not forget that you forgot about us.’
“It is time to change course in the Middle East.  That course should be organized around these bedrock principles:
“America must have confidence in our cause, clarity in our purpose and resolve in our might.
“No friend of America will question our commitment to support them.
“No enemy that attacks America will question our resolve to defeat them.
“And no one anywhere, friend or foe, will doubt America’s capability to back up our words.
“I will put the leaders of Iran on notice that the United States and our friends and allies will prevent them from acquiring nuclear weapons capability.
“I will not hesitate to impose new sanctions on Iran, and will tighten the sanctions we currently have.
“I’ll restore the permanent presence of aircraft carrier task forces in both the Eastern Mediterranean and the Gulf region. And I’ll work with Israel to increase our military assistance and coordination.  For the sake of peace, we must make clear to Iran through actions—not just words—that their nuclear pursuit will not be tolerated.
“I will reaffirm our historic ties to Israel and our abiding commitment to its security. The world must never see any daylight between our two nations.
“I’ll deepen our critical cooperation with our partners in the Gulf.
“And I will roll back President Obama’s deep and arbitrary cuts to our national defense that would devastate our military. I’ll make the critical defense investments that we need to remain secure.
“The decisions we make today will determine our ability to protect America tomorrow.  The first purpose of a strong military is to prevent war.
“The size of our Navy is at levels not seen since 1916. I’ll restore our Navy to the size needed to fulfill our missions by building 15 ships per year, including three submarines.
“I’ll implement effective missile defenses to protect against threats. And on this, there will be no flexibility with Vladimir Putin.
“And I will call on our NATO allies to keep the greatest military alliance in history strong by honoring their commitment to each devote 2% of their GDP to security spending. Today, only 3 of the 28 NATO nations meet this benchmark.
“I’ll make further reforms to our foreign assistance to create incentives for good governance, for free enterprise, and for greater trade, in the Middle East and beyond.
“I’ll organize all assistance efforts in the greater Middle East under one official with responsibility and accountability to prioritize efforts and to produce results.
“I’ll rally our friends and allies to match our generosity with theirs.
“And I will make it clear to the recipients of our aid that, in return for our material support, they must meet the responsibilities of every decent modern government—to respect the rights of all of their citizens, including women and minorities; to ensure space for civil society, a free media, political parties, and an independent judiciary; and to abide by their international commitments to protect our diplomats and our property.
“I’ll champion free trade and restore it as a critical element of our strategy, both in the Middle East and across the world.  The President has not signed one new free trade agreement in the past four years.  I will reverse that failure.  I’ll work with nations around the world that are committed to the principles of free enterprise, expanding existing relationships and establishing new ones.
“I’ll support friends across the Middle East who share our values, but need help defending them and their sovereignty against our common enemies.
“In Libya, I’ll support the Libyan people’s efforts to forge a lasting government that represents all of them, and I’ll vigorously pursue the terrorists who attacked our consulate in Benghazi and killed our fellow Americans.
“In Egypt, I will use our influence—including clear conditions on our aid—to urge the new government to represent all Egyptians, to build democratic institutions, and to maintain its peace treaty with Israel.
“And we must persuade our friends and allies to place similar stipulations on their aid.
“In Syria, I’ll work with our partners to identify and organize those members of the opposition who share our values and then ensure they obtain the arms they need to defeat Assad’s tanks, helicopters, and fighter jets.
“Iran is sending arms to Assad because they know his downfall would be a strategic defeat for them.
“We should be working no less vigorously with our international partners to support the many Syrians who would deliver that defeat to Iran—rather than sitting on the sidelines.
“It’s essential that we develop influence with those forces in Syria that will one day lead a country that sits at the heart of the Middle East.
“And in Afghanistan, I will pursue a real and successful transition to Afghan security forces by the end of 2014.
“President Obama would have you believe that anyone who disagrees with his decisions in Afghanistan is arguing for endless war. But the route to war – and to potential attacks here at home – is a politically timed retreat that abandons the Afghan people to the same extremists who ravaged their country and used it to launch the attacks of 9/11.
“I’ll evaluate conditions on the ground and weigh the best advice of our military commanders. And I will affirm that my duty is not to my political prospects, but to the security of the nation.
“Finally, I’ll recommit America to the goal of a democratic, prosperous Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with the Jewish state of Israel.  On this vital issue, the President has failed, and what should be a negotiation process has devolved into a series of heated disputes at the U.N.
“In this old conflict, as in every challenge we face in the Middle East, only a new President will bring the chance to begin anew.
“There’s a longing for American leadership in the Middle East—and it is not unique to that region.
“It’s broadly felt by America’s friends and allies in other parts of the world as well— in Europe, where Putin’s Russia casts a long shadow over young democracies, and where our oldest allies have been told we are ‘pivoting’ away from them; in Asia and across the Pacific, where China’s recent assertiveness is sending chills through the region; and here in our own hemisphere, where our neighbors in Latin America want to resist the failed ideology of Hugo Chavez and the Castro brothers and deepen ties with the United States on trade, energy, and security.
“But in all of these places, just as in the Middle East, the question is asked:  ‘Where does America stand?’
“I know many Americans are asking a different question: ‘Why us?’
“I know many Americans are asking whether our country today—with our ailing economy, and our massive debt, and after 11 years at war—is still capable of leading.
“I believe that if America doesn’t lead, others will—others who do not share our interests and our values—and the world would grow darker, for our friends and for us.
“America’s security and the cause of freedom cannot afford four more years like the last four years.
“I’m running for President because I believe the leader of the free world has a duty, to our citizens, and to our friends everywhere, to use America’s great influence—wisely, with solemnity and without false pride, but also firmly and actively—to shape events in ways that secure our interests, further our values, prevent conflict, and make the world better—not perfect, but better.
“Our friends and allies across the globe do not want less American leadership.  They want more—more of our moral support, more of our security cooperation, more of our trade, and more of our assistance in building free societies and thriving economies.
“So many people across the world still look to America as the best hope of humankind.  So many people still have faith in America.
“We must show them that we still have faith in ourselves—that we have the will and the wisdom to revive our stagnant economy, to roll back our unsustainable debt, to reform our government, to reverse the catastrophic cuts now threatening our national defense, to renew the sources of our great power, and to lead the course of human events.
“Sir Winston Churchill once said of George Marshall:  ‘He … always fought victoriously against defeatism, discouragement, and disillusion.’
“That’s the role our friends want America to play again.  And it is the role we must play.
“The 21st century can and must be an American century. It began with terror, war, and economic calamity. It’s our duty to steer it onto the path of freedom, and peace, and prosperity.
“The torch America carries is one of decency and hope. It is not America’s torch alone. But it is America’s duty – and honor – to hold it high enough that all the world can see its light.
“Thank you so much for your participation in this great charge. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.”

“The President has also failed to lead in Syria, where more than 30,000 men, women, and children have been massacred by the Assad regime over the past 20 months. Violent extremists are flowing into the fight. Our ally Turkey has been attacked. And the conflict threatens stability in the region.”
“Iran today has never been closer to a nuclear weapons capability.  It has never posed a greater danger to our friends, our allies, and us.  And it has never acted less deterred by America, as was made clear last year when Iranian agents plotted to assassinate the Saudi Ambassador in our nation’s capital.
“And yet, when millions of Iranians took to the streets in June of 2009, when they demanded freedom from a cruel regime that threatens the world, when they cried out, ‘Are you with us, or are you with them?’ —the American President was silent.”
“Gov. Romney, you’ve been the chief executive of a state. I was just in Joplin, Missouri. I’ve been in Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee and other communities dealing with the tornadoes, the flooding and worse. FEMA’s about to run out of money, and there are some people that say do it on a case-by-case basis and some people who say, you know, maybe we’re learning a lesson here and maybe the state should take more of this role. How do you deal with something like that?”
“Absolutely. Every time you have an occasion to take something from the federal government and send it back to the states, that’s the right direction. And if you can go even further and send it back to the private sector, that’s even better.
“Instead of thinking in the federal budget what we should cut, we should ask ourselves the opposite question: What should we keep? We should take all of what we’re doing at the federal level and say what are the things we’re doing that we don’t have to do and those things we’ve got to stop doing because we’re borrowing $1.6 trillion more this year than we’re taking in. We cannot – we cannot afford to do those things without jeopardizing the future of our kids. It’s simply immoral, in my view, for us to continue to rack up larger and larger debts and pass them on to our kids knowing full well that we’ll be dead and gone before it’s paid off.”
“Today’s increase in the unemployment rate is a sad reminder that the economy is at a virtual standstill. The jobless rate is higher than it was when President Obama took office, and there are still 23 million Americans struggling for work. On Tuesday, America will make a choice between stagnation and prosperity. For four years, President Obama’s policies have crushed America’s middle class. For four years, President Obama has told us that things are getting better and that we’re making progress. For too many American families, those words ring hollow. We can do better. We can have real economic growth, create millions of good-paying jobs, and give middle-class families the security and opportunity they deserve. When I’m president, I’m going to make real changes that lead to a real recovery, so that the next four years are better than the last.”

…I’m not here to announce my candidacy for office and I’m not going to endorse a candidate today.
Instead, I’d like to offer my perspective on the nominating process of my party.
Back in 1964, just days before the presidential election, which incidentally we lost, Ronald Reagan went on national television and challenged America, saying that it was a time for choosing. He saw two paths for America, one that embraced conservative principles dedicated to lifting people out of poverty and helping creating opportunity for all and the other an oppressive government that would lead America down a darker less free path.
I’m no Ronald Reagan and this is a different moment in time. But I believe with all my heart and soul that we face another time for choosing – one that will have profound consequences for the Republican Party and more importantly for our country.
I say this in part because of my conviction that America is poised to lead the world for another century.
Our technology engines, our innovation dynamic, the ambition and skill of our people are going to propel our economy and raise the standard of living of Americans.
America will remain as it is today the envy of the world.
You may have seen Warren Buffett. He said and I think he’s 100% right that the babies being born in America today are the luckiest crop in history.
Now, that doesn’t mean we don’t have real problems and serious challenges. We do.
At home, poverty persists and wages are stagnant. The horrific massacres of Paris and San Bernardino, the nuclear ambitions of the Iranian mullahs, the aggressions of Putin, the growing assertiveness of China, and the nuclear tests of North Korea confirm that we live in troubled and dangerous times.
But if we make the right choices, America’s future will be even better than our past and better than our present.
On the other hand, if we make improvident choices, the bright horizons I’ve described will not materialize.
And let me put it very plainly, if we Republicans choose Donald Trump as our nominee the prospects for a safe and prosperous future are greatly diminished.
Let me explain why I say that.
First, on the economy, if Donald Trump’s plans were ever implemented, the country would sink into prolonged recession.
A few examples:
His proposed 35% tariff-like penalties would instigate a trade war and that would raise prices for consumers, kill our export jobs, and lead entrepreneurs and businesses of all stripes to flee America.
His tax plan in combination with his refusal to reform entitlements and to honestly address spending would balloon the deficit and the national debt.
…

So even though Donald Trump has offered very few specific economic plans, what little he has said is enough to know that he would be very bad for American workers and for American families.
But you’d say, “Wait, wait, wait. Isn’t he a huge business success? Doesn’t he know what he’s talking about?”
No, he isn’t, and no, he doesn’t. Look, his bankruptcies have crushed small businesses and the men and women who work for them.
He inherited his business; he didn’t create it.
And whatever happened to Trump Airlines? How about Trump University? And then there’s Trump Magazine and Trump Vodka and Trump Steaks and Trump Mortgage.
A business genius he is not.
Now, not every policy that Donald Trump has floated is bad. Of course, he wants to repeal and replace Obamacare. He wants to bring jobs home from China and Japan.
But his prescriptions to do those things are flimsy at best.
At the last debate, all he could remember about his health care plan was to remove boundaries between states.
Successfully bringing jobs home requires serious policies and reforms that make America the place businesses want to come, want to plan, and want to grow.
You can’t punish business into doing what you want.
Frankly, the only serious policy proposals that deal with the broad range of national challenges we confront today come from Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and John Kasich. One of these men should be our nominee.
Now, I know that some people want this race to be over. They look at history and say a train like Mr. Trump isn’t going to be stopped. Perhaps.
But the rules of political history have pretty much all been shredded during this campaign.
If the other candidates can find some common ground, I believe we can nominate a person who can win the general election and who will represent the values and policies of conservatism.
Given the current delegate selection process, that means that I vote for Marco Rubio in Florida, for John Kasich in Ohio, and for Ted Cruz or whichever one of the other two contenders has the best chance of beating Mr. Trump in a given state.
Now, let me turn to national security and the safety of our homes and loved ones.
Mr. Trump’s bombast is already alarming our allies and fueling the enmity of our enemies.
Insulting all Muslims will keep many of them from fully engaging with us in the urgent fight against ISIS. And for what purpose? Muslim terrorists would only have to lie about their religion to enter the country.
And then what he said on 60 Minutes. Did you hear this? It was Syria and ISIS and it has to go down as the most ridiculous and dangerous idea of the entire campaign season. “Let ISIS take out Assad,” he said. “And then we can pick up the remnants.”
Now, think about that. Let the most dangerous terror organization the world has ever known take over an entire country? This recklessness is recklessness in the extreme.
Now, Donald Trump tells us that he is very, very smart. I’m afraid that when it comes to foreign policy he is very, very not smart.
Now, I’m far from the first to conclude that Donald Trump lacks the temperament to be president.
After all, this is an individual who mocked a disabled reported, who attributed a reporter’s question to her menstrual cycle, who mocked a brilliant rival who happened to be a woman due to her appearance, who bragged about his marital affairs, and who laces his public speeches with vulgarity.

Donald Trump said he admires Vladimir Putin at the same time he’s called George W. Bush a liar. That is a twisted example of evil trumping good.
There is a dark irony in his boasts of his sexual exploits during the Vietnam War while at the same time John McCain who he has mocked was imprisoned and tortured.
Dishonesty is Donald Trump’s hallmark. He claimed that he had spoken clearly and boldly against going into Iraq. Wrong. He spoke in favor of invading Iraq.
He said he saw thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrating 9/11. Wrong. He saw no such thing. He imagined it.
He’s not of the temperament of the kind of stable, thoughtful person we need as leader. His imagination must not be married to real power.
The president of the United States has long been the leader of the free world. The president and, yes, even the nominees of the country’s great parties help define America to billions of people around the world. All of them bear the responsibility of being an example for our children and our grandchildren.
Think of Donald Trump’s personal qualities – the bullying, the greed, the showing off, the misogyny, the absurd third grade theatrics.
You know, we’ve long referred to him as “The Donald”. He’s the only person in the entire country to whom we have added an article to his name, and it wasn’t because he had attributes we admired.
Now, imagine your children and your grandchildren acting the way he does, would you welcome that?
Haven’t we seen before what happens when people in prominent positions fail the basic responsibility of honorable conduct? We have and it always injures our families and our country.
Watch, by the way, how he responds to my speech today.
Will he talk about policy difference? Or will he attack me with every imaginable low road insult?
This may tell you what you need to know about his temperament, his stability, and his suitability to be president.
Now, Mr. Trump relishes any poll that reflects what he thinks of himself. But polls are also saying that he will lose to Hillary Clinton. Think about that.
On Hillary Clinton’s watch, the State Department, when she was guiding it and part of the Obama administration, that State Department watched as America’s interest was diminished at every corner of the world. She compromised our national secrets. She dissembled to the families of the slain. And she jettisoned her most profound beliefs to gain presidential power.
For the last three decades, the Clintons have lived at the intersection of money and politics, trading their political influence to enrich their personal finances. They embodied the term crony capitalism. They disgust the American people and causes them to lose faith in our political process.
A person so untrustworthy and dishonest as Hillary Clinton must not become president.
Of course, a Trump nomination enables her victory, and the audio and video of the infamous Tapper-Trump exchange on the Ku Klux Klan will play 100,000 times on cable and who knows how many million times on social media.
…

There are a number of people who claim that Mr. Trump is a con man, a fake.
Thank you. Haha.
Let me say that again. There’s plenty of evidence that Mr. Trump is a con man, a fake.
Mr. Trump has changed his positions not just over the years but over the course of the campaign and on that Ku Klux Klan daily for three days in a row.
We will only really know if he’s a real deal or a phony if he releases his tax returns a tape of his interview with the New York Times.
I predict that there are more bombshells in his tax returns. I predict that he doesn’t give much of anything to the disabled and to our veterans. I predict that he told the New York Times that his immigration talk is just that – talk.
And I predict that despite his promise to do so first made over a year ago, that he will never, ever release his tax returns. Never. Not the returns under audit. Not even the returns that are no longer being audited. He has too much to hide.
Nor will he authorize the release of the tapes that he made with the New York Times.
If I’m right, you’ll have all the proof you’ll need to know that Donald Trump is indeed a phony. Attacking me as he surely will won’t prove of any less of a phony.
It’s entirely in his hands to prove me wrong. All he has to do is release his back taxes like he promised he would and let us hear what he said behind closed doors to the New York Times.
You know, Ronald Reagan used to quote a Scottish philosopher, who predicted that democracies and civilizations wouldn’t last month longer than a couple of hundred years.
And John Adams wrote this: “Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There never was a democracy yet that did not commit suicide.” That’s John Adams.
I believe that America has proven these dire predictions wrong for two reasons. First, we’ve been blessed with great presidents, with giants among us. Men of character, integrity, and selflessness have led our nation from the very beginning. None were perfect. Each surely made mistakes. But in every case, they acted out of desire to do what was right for America and for the cause of freedom.
The second reason is because we’re blessed with a great people – people who at every critical moment of choosing have put the interests of the country above their own.
These two things are related. Our presidents time and again have called on us to rise to the occasion. John F. Kennedy asked us to consider what we could do for our country. Lincoln drew upon the better angels of our nature to save the union.
I understand the anger Americans feel today. In the past, our presidents have channeled that anger and forged it into resolve, into endurance and high purpose, and into the will to defeat the enemies of freedom. Our anger was transformed into energy directed for good.
Mr. Trump is directing our anger for less than noble purposes. He creates scapegoats of Muslims and Mexican immigrants. He calls for the use of torture. He calls for killing the innocent children and family members of terrorists. He cheers assaults on protesters. He applauds the prospect of twisting the constitution to limit the First Amendment freedom of the press.
This is very brand of anger that has led other nations into the abyss.
Here’s what I know. Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud. His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University. He’s playing the members of the American public for suckers. He gets a free ride to the White House and all we get is a lousy hat. His domestic policies would lead to recession. His foreign policies would make America and the world less safe. He has neither the temperament nor the judgment to be president and his personal qualities would mean that America would cease to be a shining city on a hill.
I’m convinced America has greatness ahead and this is a time for choosing. God bless us to choose a nominee who will make that vision a reality. Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you.
