
Question:
Thank you, Mr. President.  You mentioned San Bernardino and Orlando.  And Americans have been warned that similar attacks could happen here in — over there in the United States.
And obviously what happened this week in Minnesota and Louisiana and Dallas — these are not necessarily the same types of attacks and the motivations may be different, but, collectively, they’re having a real impact on the American public in that there’s a real anxiety out there, where people are genuinely afraid, going about their daily lives, doing routine things.
…So my questions are, do you see any sort of common thread in these events?  Is this sort of just a new normal?  Is there anything that you can do about this?  And what’s your message to Americans who are genuinely afraid?  Because the anxiety just seems to be getting worse, not better, and these attacks keep seeming to happen in much more regularity that wasn’t a part of their experience even, say, a year ago.
President Barack Obama:
…I do think we have to disentangle these issues.  When it comes to terrorist attacks, people are understandably concerned not just because of what’s happening in the United States, but what happened in Brussels, and what’s happened in Paris, and what’s happened in Turkey, and what is consistently happening in Iraq and Bangladesh and all around the world.  And that’s why the work that we’ve done with NATO and our counter-ISIL coalition and other partners is so vital.
One of the things that’s been commented on is that as ISIL loses territory and the fraud of the caliphate becomes more obvious, they are going to start resorting to more traditional terrorist tactics.  They can’t govern.  They can’t deliver anything meaningful to the people whose territory they can control.  The one thing they know how to do is kill.
And so we’re going to have to redouble our efforts in terms of intelligence, coordination, our counter-messaging on extremism, working closely with Muslim communities both overseas and in our own countries to make sure that we are reducing the number of people who are inspired by their message or are, in some coordinated fashion, trying to attack us.
And obviously, we have built up a huge infrastructure to try to do that.  The more successful we are in Iraq and Syria and Libya and other places where ISIL has gotten a stronghold, the weaker they are, the less resources they have, the less effectively they can recruit.  But when individuals are willing to die, and they have no conscience and compunction about killing innocent people, they are hard to detect.  And it means that we’ve got to continually up our game.
Having said that, I think it is important to note just the success that we’ve seen in the last several weeks when it comes to rolling back al Qaeda.  The liberation of Fallujah got a little bit lost in the news, but that’s a big town, and with our support, the counter-ISIL coalition support, the Iraqi government was able to move through there quickly.  They’re now positioning themselves so that they can start going after Mosul.  In Syria, you’re seeing progress along Pocket Manbij that has been used for foreign fighter flows.  And so they’re on their heels, and we’re going to stay on it.
Now, when it comes to crime, generally, I think it’s just important to keep in mind that our crime rate today is substantially lower than it was five years ago, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, 30 years ago.  Over the last four or five years, during the course of my presidency, violent crime in the United States is the lowest it’s been since probably the 1960s, maybe before the early 1960s.  There’s been an incredible drop in violent crime.
So that doesn’t lessen, I think, people’s understandable fears if they see a video clip of somebody getting killed.  But it is important to keep in perspective that in places like New York, or Los Angeles, or Dallas, you’ve seen huge drops in the murder rates.  And that’s a testimony to smarter policing, and there are a range of other factors that have contributed to that.
So that should not — we should never be satisfied when any innocent person has been killed, but that should not be something that is driving our anxieties, relative to where we’ve been in the past.
And with respect to, finally, the issue of police shootings, there’s no doubt that the visual records that we’re seeing have elevated people’s consciousness about this.
But as I’ve said before, for African Americans or Latinos in the pre-smartphone age, I don’t think that people were not aware of the fact that there is evidence of racial bias in our criminal justice system. It’s been well-documented, and it’s been experienced.
And even before I got to the U.S. Senate, when I was in the State Senate in Illinois, I passed legislation to try to reduce the incidents of racial profiling by collecting data.  And that was prompted by evidence that it was taking place in certain parts of the state.
And the fact that we’re aware of it may increase some anxiety right now, and hurt and anger.  But it’s been said, sunshine is the best disinfectant.  By seeing it, by people feeling a sense of urgency about it, by the larger American community realizing that, gosh, maybe this is a problem — and we’ve seen even some very conservative commentators begin to acknowledge this is something maybe we need to work on — that promises the possibility of actually getting it done.  So, it hurts, but if we don’t diagnose this we can’t fix it.

…I want to begin this press conference with events back home. This has been a tough week — first and foremost, for the families who have been killed, but also for the entire American family.
In my call yesterday to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, I stressed that the Justice Department and our federal government should continue to do everything that we can to assist the investigation in Dallas, and to support the police and the city of Dallas as they deal with this tragedy.
In my call to Chief Brown, I commended him for showing outstanding leadership during an extremely challenging time, and asked him to convey to all the officers and their families how the American people are grieving with them and that we stand with them.
I’ll have the opportunity to convey our condolences and show our solidarity when I visit Dallas in a few days.  But before I do, let me just make some very brief points.
First of all, as painful as this week has been, I firmly believe that America is not as divided as some have suggested.  Americans of all races and all backgrounds are rightly outraged by the inexcusable attacks on police, whether it’s in Dallas or anyplace else.
That includes protestors.  It includes family members who have grave concerns about police conduct, and they have said that this is unacceptable.  There’s no division there.
And Americans of all races and all backgrounds are also rightly saddened and angered about the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, and about the larger, persistent problem of African Americans and Latinos being treated differently in our criminal justice system.
So there is sorrow, there is anger, there is confusion about next steps.  But there’s unity in recognizing that this is not how we want our communities to operate.  This is not who we want to be as Americans.  And that serves as the basis for us being able to move forward in a constructive and positive way.
So we cannot let the actions of a few define all of us.  The demented individual who carried out those attacks in Dallas, he’s no more representative of African Americans than the shooter in Charleston was representative of white Americans, or the shooter in Orlando or San Bernardino were representative of Muslim Americans.  They don’t speak for us.  That’s not who we are.
And one of the things that gives me hope this week is actually seeing how the overwhelming majority of Americans have reacted — with empathy and understanding.
We’ve seen police continue to reach out to communities that they serve all across the country, and show incredible professionalism as they’re protecting protestors.  We’ve seen activists and grassroots groups who have expressed concern about police shootings, but are also adamant in their support of the Dallas Police Department — which is particularly appropriate because the Dallas Police Department is a great example of a department that has taken the issue of police shootings seriously and has engaged in an approach that has not only brought down their murder rates but also drastically reduced complaints around police misconduct.
That’s the spirit that we all need to embrace.  That’s the spirit that I want to build on.  It’s one of the reasons why next week, using the task force that we had set up after Ferguson, but also building on it, and inviting both police and law enforcement and community activists and civil rights leaders, bringing them together to the White House.  I want to start moving on constructive actions that are actually going to make a difference, because that is what all Americans want.
So when we start suggesting that somehow there’s this enormous polarization, and we’re back to the situation in the ’60s — that’s just not true.  You’re not seeing riots, and you’re not seeing police going after people who are protesting peacefully.  You’ve seen almost uniformly peaceful protests.  And you’ve seen uniformly police handling those protests with professionalism.
And so, as tough, as hard, as depressing as the loss of life was this week, we’ve got a foundation to build on.  We just have to have to confidence that we can build on those better angels of our nature.
And we have to make sure that all of us step back, do some reflection, and make sure that the rhetoric that we engage in is constructive, and not destructive; that we’re not painting anybody with an overly broad brush; that we’re not constantly thinking the worst in other people rather than the best.  If we do that, then I’m confident that we will continue to make progress.

Question:
Thank you, Mr. President.  As you come to the end of your term, there’s a lot of talk about your legacy.  I know you may like to leave that to the historians, but — but when you look back on your presidency and consider race relations, what do you hope your legacy will be?  How do you think the shootings in Dallas and the high-profile shootings by police, and other events will shape the way your presidency is remembered?
President Barack Obama:
I do want to leave legacy questions to the history books.  But what I can do — maybe this is a fair response to your question — is to say how I’ve tried to lead the country on this issue.
More than anything, what I hope is that my voice has tried to get all of us as Americans to understand the difficult legacy of race; to encourage people to listen to each other; to recognize that the legacy of slavery and Jim Crow and discrimination didn’t suddenly vanish with the passage of the Civil Rights Act or the Voting Rights Act, or the election of Barack Obama; that things have gotten better — substantially better — but that we’ve still got a lot more work to do; and that, as was the case with the police task force that we set up, that I’ve tried to encourage people to come up with practical, concrete solutions that can reduce, if not eliminate, the problems of racial bias.
And if my voice has been true and positive, then my hope would be that it may not fix everything right away, but it surfaces problems, it frames them; it allows us to wrestle with these issues and try to come up with practical solutions; and that that perspective may lead to continued improvement so that not just Malia and Sasha, but their children can experience a country that is more just and more united and more equal.
And that’s not going to happen right away, and that’s okay. We plant seeds, and somebody else maybe sits under the shade of the tree that we planted.  And I’d like to think that, as best as I could, I have been true in speaking about these issues.

Question:
Thanks, Mr. President.  I wanted to specifically ask about the Dallas shooting and the attacker there.  Now that we know more about the man who we believe did those crimes, I’m wondering if you could help us understand how you describe his motives.  Do you consider this an act of domestic terrorism?  Was this a hate crime?  Was this a mentally ill man with a gun?  How should Americans understand why that happened?
And then also, on the issue of political division and looking for solutions, there have been some critics who noted that you immediately mentioned your call for gun control soon after the attacks.  Do you think that in any way encourages or ensures that people retreat to their corners as they think about this?
President Barack Obama:
First of all, I think it’s very hard to untangle the motives of this shooter.  As we’ve seen in a whole range of incidents with mass shooters, they are, by definition, troubled.  By definition, if you shoot people who pose no threat to you — strangers — you have a troubled mind.  What triggers that, what feeds it, what sets it off, I’ll leave that to psychologists and people who study these kinds of incidents.
What I can say is that although he may have used as an excuse his anger about previous incidents — as has been indicated, at least, in the press, and as Chief Brown I think indicated — in no way does that represent what the overwhelming majority of Americans think.
Americans, to a large degree, want to make sure that we have a police force that is supported, because they know our police officers do a really tough, dangerous job.  And witness the professionalism of our Dallas police officers.  As they were being shot at, the fact that they helped to clear the area, they helped to get the fallen and the injured out of there, they were able to isolate the suspect, and that you didn’t have other casualties as a consequence of the police shooting back — that just gives you an indication of what a tough job they have and how well they do it on a regular basis.
So I think the danger, as I said, is that we somehow suggest that the act of a troubled individual speaks to some larger political statement across the country.  It doesn’t.  When some white kid walks into a church and shoots a bunch of worshippers who invite him to worship with them, we don’t assume that somehow he’s making a political statement that’s relevant to the attitudes of the rest of America.  And we shouldn’t make those assumptions around a troubled Muslim individual who is acting on their own in that same way.
Now, with respect to the issue of guns, I am going to keep on talking about the fact that we cannot eliminate all racial tension in our country overnight; we are not going to be able to identify ahead of time and eliminate every madman or troubled individual who might want to do harm against innocent people; but we can make it harder for them to do so.
And if you look at the pattern of death and violence and shootings that we’ve experienced over the course of the last year, or the last five years, or the last 10 years — I’ve said this before — we are unique among advanced countries in the scale of violence that we experience.  And I’m not just talking about mass shootings.  I’m talking about the hundreds of people who have already been shot this year in my hometown of Chicago — the ones that we just consider routine.
Now, we may not see that issue as connected to what happened in Dallas, but part of what’s creating tensions between communities and the police is the fact that police have a really difficult time in communities where they know guns are everywhere.  As I said before, they have a right to come home — and now they have very little margin of error in terms of making decisions.  So if you care about the safety of our police officers, then you can’t set aside the gun issue and pretend that that’s irrelevant.
At the protest in Dallas, one of the challenges for the Dallas Police Department — as they’re being shot at — is because this is an open-carry state, there are a bunch of people participating in the protest who have weapons on them.  Imagine if you’re a police officer and you’re trying to sort out who is shooting at you and there are a bunch of people who have got guns on them.
In Minneapolis, we don’t know yet what happened, but we do know that there was a gun in the car that apparently was licensed, but it caused in some fashion those tragic events.
 
So, no, we can’t just ignore that and pretend that that’s somehow political or the President is pushing his policy agenda. It is a contributing factor — not the sole factor, but a contributing factor to the broader tensions that arise between police and the communities where they serve.  And so we have to talk about that.
And as I’ve said before, there is a way to talk about that that is consistent with our Constitution and the Second Amendment.  The problem is even mention of it somehow evokes this kind of polarization.
And you’re right, when it comes to the issue of gun safety, there is polarization between a very intense minority and a majority of Americans who actually think that we could be doing better when it comes to gun safety.  But that expresses itself in stark terms when it comes to legislation in Congress or in state legislatures.  And that’s too bad.
We’re going to have to tackle that at some point.  And I’m not going to stop talking about it, because if we don’t talk about it, we’re not going to solve these underlying problems.  It’s part of the problem.
