
President Hollande, it has been an honor to welcome you to the White House before, in happier times than this.
But as Americans, we stand by our friends — in good times and in bad — no matter what.  So on behalf of the American people, I want to once again express our deepest condolences to you and all of the people of France for the heinous attacks that took place in Paris.
We’re here today to declare that the United States and France stand united — in total solidarity — to deliver justice to these terrorists and those who sent them, and to defend our nations.  In that spirit, with heavy but strong hearts, I welcome you today.
François, with your understanding, my statement today will be a little longer than usual.
I’ve been traveling, and this is an important moment for our nations and for the world.  This barbaric terrorist group — ISIL, or Daesh — and its murderous ideology pose a serious threat to all of us.  It cannot be tolerated.  It must be destroyed.  And we must do it together.  This is the unity of purpose that brings us here today.
On your visit here last year, you said that the French love America.  We love the French.  Sometimes we Americans are too shy to say so, but we’re not feeling shy today.  We Americans love France because we dedicate ourselves to the same ideals — that all people deserve life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  France is our oldest ally.  You helped us win our independence.  We helped liberate France from fascism.  We owe our freedom to each other.
We love France for your spirit and your culture, your joie de vivre.  Since the attacks, Americans have recalled their own visits to Paris — visiting the Eiffel Tower, or walking along the Seine.  We know these places.  They’re part of our memories, woven into the fabric of our lives and our culture.  I am very grateful to the French people for the hospitality they’ve always shown me, and when they welcomed Michelle and our daughters on their first visit to the City of Lights.  By my bed, in the residence, is a picture of me and Michelle in Luxembourg Gardens, kissing.  Those are the memories we have of Paris.  As early on, I had no gray hair.
So when tragedy struck that evening, our hearts broke, too.  In that stadium and concert hall, in those restaurants and cafés, we see our own.  In the faces of the French people, we see ourselves.  And that’s why so many Americans have embraced the blue, white and red.  It’s why Americans, at candlelight vigils, have joined together to sing La Marseillaise.  We have never forgotten how the French people stood with us after 9/11.  And today, we stand with you — nous sommes tous Français.
It’s been noted that the terrorists did not direct their attacks against the French government or military.  Rather, they focused their violence on the very spirit of France — and by extension, on all liberal democracies.  This was an attack on our free and open societies — where people come together to celebrate and sing and compete.  In targeting venues where people come together from around the world — killing citizens of nearly 20 countries, including America — this was an attack on the very idea that people of different races and religions and backgrounds can live together in peace.
In short, this was not only a strike against one of the world’s great cities, it was an attack against the world itself.  It’s the same madness that has slaughtered the innocent from Nigeria to the Sinai, from Lebanon to Iraq.  It is a scourge that threatens all of us.  And that’s why, for more than a year, the United States, France, and our coalition of some 65 nations have been united in one mission — to destroy these ISIL terrorists and defeat their vile ideology.
Today, President Hollande and I reviewed our coalition’s progress.  More than 8,000 airstrikes, combined with local partners on the ground, have pushed ISIL back from territory in both Iraq and Syria.  Today, President Hollande and I agreed that our nations must do even more together.  U.S. assistance has supported recent French strikes in Syria, and we’re going to keep stepping up that coordination.  And as we saw with the attack in Mali, the terrorist threat goes beyond ISIL.  This week, I’ll sign legislation to sustain our support — including airlift and intelligence — to allies like France, as we work together to root out terrorist networks in Africa.
We’ll do even more to prevent attacks at home.  Building on our recent intelligence agreement, the United States will continue to quickly share threat information with France.
And in the wake of Paris, and with the threats in Belgium, there’s also a growing recognition among European nations that they need to ramp up additional efforts to prevent the flow of foreign terrorist fighters.  As part of that, I’m calling on the European Union to finally implement the agreement that’s been long in the works that would require airlines to share passenger information, so we can do more to stop foreign terrorist fighters from entering our countries undetected.  And I’m prepared to send teams of our experts to work on this with our European partners to make sure we’re redoubling our efforts together.
Regarding the broader crisis in Syria, President Hollande and I agree that Russia’s strikes against the moderate opposition only bolster the Assad regime, whose brutality has helped to fuel the rise of ISIL.  We agree that Russia could play a more constructive role if it were to shift the focus of its strikes to defeating ISIL.  And likewise, President Hollande and I agree that the best way to bring peace to Syria is through the principles reaffirmed in Vienna, which require active Russian support for a ceasefire and a political transition away from Assad to a democratically elected government that can unite the Syrian people against terrorism.
Finally, François and I understand that one of our greatest weapons in the fight against ISIL is the strength and resilience of our people.  And, here, I want to speak directly to the American people.  What happened in Paris is truly horrific.  I understand that people worry that something similar could happen here.  I want you to know that we will continue to do everything in our power to defend our nation.  Since 9/11, we’ve taken extraordinary measures to strengthen our homeland security.  Our counterterrorism, homeland security, and law enforcement professionals — federal, state and local — they are tireless.  They have prevented attacks and they have saved lives.  They are working every hour, every day for our security. They did so before Paris, they do so now, and they will not stop.  They’re the best in the world.
But it’s not just our security professionals who will defeat ISIL and other terrorist groups.  As Americans, we all have a role to play in how we respond to threats.  Groups like ISIL cannot defeat us on the battlefield, so they try to terrorize us at home — against soft targets, against civilians, against innocent people.  Even as we’re vigilant, we cannot, and we will not, succumb to fear.  Nor can we allow fear to divide us — for that’s how terrorists win.  We cannot give them the victory of changing how we go about living our lives.
The good news is Americans are resilient.  We mourned the lives lost at Fort Hood, the Boston Marathon, at Chattanooga.  But we did not waver.  Our communities have come together.  We’ve gone to ballgames and we’ve gone to concerts, and we’ve gone shopping.  And men and women who want to serve our country continue to go to military recruiting offices.  We’re vigilant, we take precautions, but we go about our business.  To those who want to harm us, our actions have shown that we have too much resolve and too much character.  Americans will not be terrorized.
I say all this because another part of being vigilant, another part of defeating terrorists like ISIL, is upholding the rights and freedoms that define our two great republics.  That includes freedom of religion.  That includes equality before the law.  There have been times in our history, in moments of fear, when we have failed to uphold our highest ideals, and it has been to our lasting regret.  We must uphold our ideals now.  Each of us, all of us, must show that America is strengthened by people of every faith and every background.
Related to this, I want to note that under President Hollande, France plans to welcome 30,000 additional Syrian refugees over the next two years.  Here in the United States, refugees coming to America go through up to two years of intense security checks, including biometric screening.  Nobody who sets foot in America goes through more screening than refugees.  And we’re prepared to share these tools with France and our European partners.  As François has said, our humanitarian duty to help desperate refugees and our duty to our security — those duties go hand in hand.
On the Statue of Liberty, a gift from the people of France, there are words we know so well:  Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free.  That’s the spirit that makes us American.  That’s the spirit that binds us to France. That’s the spirit we need today.
In closing, I want to salute the people of Paris for showing the world how to stay strong in the face of terrorism.  Even as they grieve, Parisians have begun returning to their cafés, riding the metro, and going to stadiums to cheer for their teams.  Crowds gather in the Place de la République, including a mother who brought her children — she said, “to let them see that we should not be afraid.”  As one Parisian said, “Paris will always be Paris.”
And next week, I will be joining President Hollande and world leaders in Paris for the global climate conference.  What a powerful rebuke to the terrorists it will be when the world stands as one and shows that we will not be deterred from building a better future for our children.
So, President Hollande, my fellow Americans — let’s remember we’ve faced greater threats to our way of life before.  Fascism.  Communism.  A first world war.  A second.  A long Cold War.  Each and every time, we prevailed.  We have prevailed because our way of life is stronger.  Because we stay united.  Because even as we are relentless in the face of evil, we draw on what’s best in ourselves and in the character of our countries.  It will be no different this time.  Make no mistake, we will win, and groups like ISIL will lose.  And standing with allies like France, we will continue to show the world the best of American leadership.
Vive la France.  And God bless the United States of America.
